---
aliases: ["1 Corinthians 14", "1 Cor. 14"]
---
# 1 Corinthians 14
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1cor13|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor14notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor15|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Prophecy and Tongues
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>Pursue love and be eager for the spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>For the one speaking in a tongue does not speak to people but to God, for no one understands; he is speaking mysteries by the Spirit.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>But the one who prophesies speaks to people for their strengthening, encouragement, and consolation.
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>The one who speaks in a tongue builds himself up, but the one who prophesies builds up the church.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>I wish you all spoke in tongues, but even more that you would prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets so that the church may be strengthened.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 6
<span class=verse-first>6</span>Now, brothers and sisters, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will I help you unless I speak to you with a revelation or with knowledge or prophecy or teaching?
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>It is similar for lifeless things that make a sound, like a flute or harp. Unless they make a distinction in the notes, how can what is played on the flute or harp be understood?
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>If, for example, the trumpet makes an unclear sound, who will get ready for battle?
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>It is the same for you. If you do not speak clearly with your tongue, how will anyone know what is being said? For you will be speaking into the air.
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>There are probably many kinds of languages in the world, and none is without meaning.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>If then I do not know the meaning of a language, I will be a foreigner to the speaker and the speaker a foreigner to me.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>It is the same with you. Since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, seek to abound in order to strengthen the church.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 13
<span class=verse-first>13</span>So then, one who speaks in a tongue should pray that he may interpret.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>If I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unproductive.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>What should I do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will also pray with my mind. I will sing praises with my spirit, but I will also sing praises with my mind.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>Otherwise, if you are praising God with your spirit, how can someone without the gift say “Amen” to your thanksgiving, since he does not know what you are saying?
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>For you are certainly giving thanks well, but the other person is not strengthened.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you,
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>but in the church I want to speak five words with my mind to instruct others, rather than ten thousand words in a tongue.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 20
<span class=verse-first>20</span>Brothers and sisters, do not be children in your thinking. Instead, be infants in evil, but in your thinking be mature.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>It is written in the law: “By people with strange tongues and by the lips of strangers I will speak to this people, yet not even in this way will they listen to me,” says the Lord.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>So then, tongues are a sign not for believers but for unbelievers. Prophecy, however, is not for unbelievers but for believers.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>So if the whole church comes together and all speak in tongues, and unbelievers or uninformed people enter, will they not say that you have lost your minds?
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or uninformed person enters, he will be convicted by all, he will be called to account by all.
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>The secrets of his heart are disclosed, and in this way he will fall down with his face to the ground and worship God, declaring, “God is really among you.”
## Church Order
###### 26
<span class=verse-first>26</span>What should you do then, brothers and sisters? When you come together, each one has a song, has a lesson, has a revelation, has a tongue, has an interpretation. Let all these things be done for the strengthening of the church.
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>If someone speaks in a tongue, it should be two, or at the most three, one after the other, and someone must interpret.
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>But if there is no interpreter, he should be silent in the church. Let him speak to himself and to God.
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span>Two or three prophets should speak and the others should evaluate what is said.
###### 30
<span class=verse-body>30</span>And if someone sitting down receives a revelation, the person who is speaking should conclude.
###### 31
<span class=verse-body>31</span>For you can all prophesy one after another, so all can learn and be encouraged.
###### 32
<span class=verse-body>32</span>Indeed, the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets,
###### 33
<span class=verse-body>33</span>for God is not characterized by disorder but by peace.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

As in all the churches of the saints,
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 34
<span class=verse-first>34</span>the women should be silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak. Rather, let them be in submission, as in fact the law says.
###### 35
<span class=verse-body>35</span>If they want to find out about something, they should ask their husbands at home, because it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in church.
###### 36
<span class=verse-body>36</span>Did the word of God begin with you, or did it come to you alone?
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 37
<span class=verse-first>37</span>If anyone considers himself a prophet or spiritual person, he should acknowledge that what I write to you is the Lord’s command.
###### 38
<span class=verse-body>38</span>If someone does not recognize this, he is not recognized.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 39
<span class=verse-first>39</span>So then, brothers and sisters, be eager to prophesy, and do not forbid anyone from speaking in tongues.
###### 40
<span class=verse-body>40</span>And do everything in a decent and orderly manner.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1cor13|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor14notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor15|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>