---
aliases: ["1 Samuel 31", "1 Sam. 31"]
---
# 1 Samuel 31
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam30|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam31notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2sam1|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## The Death of Saul
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel. The men of Israel fled from the Philistines and many of them fell dead on Mount Gilboa.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>The Philistines stayed right on the heels of Saul and his sons. They struck down Saul’s sons Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malki-Shua.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>Saul himself was in the thick of the battle; the archers spotted him and wounded him severely.
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>Saul said to his armor-bearer, “Draw your sword and stab me with it! Otherwise these uncircumcised people will come, stab me, and torture me.” But his armor-bearer refused to do it, because he was very afraid. So Saul took his sword and fell on it.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>When his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell on his own sword and died with him.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>So Saul, his three sons, his armor-bearer, and all his men died together that day.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 7
<span class=verse-first>7</span>When the men of Israel who were in the valley and across the Jordan saw that the men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned the cities and fled. The Philistines came and occupied them.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 8
<span class=verse-first>8</span>The next day, when the Philistines came to strip loot from the corpses, they discovered Saul and his three sons lying dead on Mount Gilboa.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>They cut off Saul’s head and stripped him of his armor. They sent messengers to announce the news in the temple of their idols and among their people throughout the surrounding land of the Philistines.
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>They placed Saul’s armor in the temple of the Ashtoreths and hung his corpse on the city wall of Beth Shan.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>When the residents of Jabesh Gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>all their warriors set out and traveled throughout the night. They took Saul’s corpse and the corpses of his sons from the city wall of Beth Shan and went to Jabesh, where they burned them.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>They took the bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree at Jabesh; then they fasted for seven days.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam30|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam31notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2sam1|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>