---
aliases: ["1 Samuel 15", "1 Sam. 15"]
---
# 1 Samuel 15
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam14|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam15notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam16|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Saul Is Rejected as King
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>Then Samuel said to Saul, “I was the one the Lᴏʀᴅ sent to anoint you as king over his people Israel. Now listen to what the Lᴏʀᴅ says.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>“Here is what the Lᴏʀᴅ of Heaven’s Armies has said: ‘I carefully observed how the Amalekites opposed Israel along the way when Israel came up from Egypt.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>‘So go now and strike down the Amalekites. Destroy everything they have. Don’t spare them. Put them to death—man, woman, child, infant, ox, sheep, camel, and donkey alike.’”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 4
<span class=verse-first>4</span>So Saul assembled the army and mustered them at Telaim. There were 200,000 foot soldiers and 10,000 men of Judah.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>Saul proceeded to the city of Amalek, where he set an ambush in the wadi.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>Saul said to the Kenites, “Go on and leave! Go down from among the Amalekites. Otherwise I will sweep you away with them. After all, you were kind to all the Israelites when they came up from Egypt.” So the Kenites withdrew from among the Amalekites.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>Then Saul struck down the Amalekites all the way from Havilah to Shur, which is next to Egypt.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>He captured King Agag of the Amalekites alive, but he executed all Agag’s people with the sword.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>However, Saul and the army spared Agag, along with the best of the flock, the cattle, the fatlings, and the lambs, as well as everything else that was of value. They were not willing to slaughter them. But they did slaughter everything that was despised and worthless.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 10
<span class=verse-first>10</span>Then the Lᴏʀᴅ’s message came to Samuel:
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>“I regret that I have made Saul king, for he has turned away from me and has not done what I told him to do.” Samuel became angry and he cried out to the Lᴏʀᴅ all that night.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>Then Samuel got up early to meet Saul the next morning. But Samuel was informed, “Saul has gone to Carmel where he is setting up a monument for himself.” Then Samuel left and went down to Gilgal.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>When Samuel came to Saul, Saul said to him, “May the Lᴏʀᴅ bless you! I have fulfilled the Lord’s orders.”
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>Samuel replied, “If that is the case, then what is this sound of sheep in my ears and the sound of cattle that I hear?”
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>Saul said, “They were brought from the Amalekites; the army spared the best of the flocks and cattle to sacrifice to the Lᴏʀᴅ our God. But everything else we slaughtered.”
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>Then Samuel said to Saul, “Wait a minute! Let me tell you what the Lᴏʀᴅ said to me last night.” Saul said to him, “Tell me.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 17
<span class=verse-first>17</span>Samuel said, “Is it not true that when you were insignificant in your own eyes, you became head of the tribes of Israel? The Lᴏʀᴅ chose you as king over Israel.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>“The Lᴏʀᴅ sent you on a campaign saying, ‘Go and exterminate those sinful Amalekites! Fight against them until you have destroyed them.’
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>“Why haven’t you obeyed the Lᴏʀᴅ? Instead you have greedily rushed upon the plunder! You have done what is wrong in the Lᴏʀᴅ’s estimation.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 20
<span class=verse-first>20</span>Then Saul said to Samuel, “But I have obeyed the Lᴏʀᴅ! I went on the campaign the Lᴏʀᴅ sent me on. I brought back King Agag of the Amalekites after exterminating the Amalekites.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>“But the army took from the plunder some of the sheep and cattle—the best of what was to be slaughtered—to sacrifice to the Lᴏʀᴅ your God in Gilgal.”
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>Then Samuel said,
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Does the Lᴏʀᴅ take pleasure in burnt offerings and sacrifices
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>As much as he does in obedience?
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Certainly, obedience is better than sacrifice;
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Paying attention is better than the fat of rams.
###### 23
><span class=verse-body-poetry>23</span><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>For rebellion is like the sin of divination,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>And presumption is like the evil of idolatry.
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Because you have rejected the Lᴏʀᴅ’s orders,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>He has rejected you from being king.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 24
<span class=verse-first>24</span>Then Saul said to Samuel, “I have sinned, for I have disobeyed what the Lᴏʀᴅ commanded and your words as well. For I was afraid of the army, and I obeyed their voice.
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>“Now please forgive my sin. Go back with me so I can worship the Lᴏʀᴅ.”
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>Samuel said to Saul, “I will not go back with you, for you have rejected the Lᴏʀᴅ’s orders, and the Lᴏʀᴅ has rejected you from being king over Israel!”
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>When Samuel turned to leave, Saul grabbed the edge of his robe and it tore.
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>Samuel said to him, “The Lᴏʀᴅ has torn the kingdom of Israel from you this day and has given it to one of your colleagues who is better than you!
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span>“The Preeminent One of Israel does not go back on his word or change his mind, for he is not a human being who changes his mind.”
###### 30
<span class=verse-body>30</span>Saul again replied, “I have sinned. But please honor me before the elders of my people and before Israel. Go back with me so I may worship the Lᴏʀᴅ your God.”
###### 31
<span class=verse-body>31</span>So Samuel followed Saul back, and Saul worshiped the Lᴏʀᴅ.
## Samuel Puts Agag to Death
###### 32
<span class=verse-first>32</span>Then Samuel said, “Bring me King Agag of the Amalekites.” So Agag came to him trembling, thinking to himself, “Surely death is bitter!”
###### 33
<span class=verse-body>33</span>Samuel said, “Just as your sword left women childless, so your mother will be the most bereaved among women.” Then Samuel hacked Agag to pieces there in Gilgal before the Lᴏʀᴅ.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 34
<span class=verse-first>34</span>Then Samuel went to Ramah, while Saul went up to his home in Gibeah of Saul.
###### 35
<span class=verse-body>35</span>Until the day he died, Samuel did not see Saul again. Samuel did, however, mourn for Saul, but the Lᴏʀᴅ regretted that he had made Saul king over Israel.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam14|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam15notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam16|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>