---
aliases: ["1 Samuel 11", "1 Sam. 11"]
---
# 1 Samuel 11
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam10|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam11notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam12|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Saul Comes to the Aid of Jabesh
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>Nahash the Ammonite marched against Jabesh Gilead. All the men of Jabesh Gilead said to Nahash, “Make a treaty with us and we will serve you.”
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>But Nahash the Ammonite said to them, “The only way I will make a treaty with you is if you let me gouge out the right eye of every one of you and in so doing humiliate all Israel!”
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>The elders of Jabesh said to him, “Leave us alone for seven days so that we can send messengers throughout the territory of Israel. If there is no one who can deliver us, we will come out voluntarily to you.”
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>When the messengers went to Gibeah (where Saul lived) and informed the people of these matters, all the people wept loudly.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 5
<span class=verse-first>5</span>Now Saul was walking behind the oxen as he came from the field. Saul asked, “What has happened to the people? Why are they weeping?” So they told him about the men of Jabesh.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>The Spirit of God rushed upon Saul when he heard these words, and he became very angry.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>He took a pair of oxen and cut them up. Then he sent the pieces throughout the territory of Israel by the hand of messengers, who said, “Whoever does not go out after Saul and after Samuel should expect this to be done to his oxen!” Then the terror of the Lᴏʀᴅ fell on the people, and they went out as one army.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>When Saul counted them at Bezek, the Israelites were 300,000 strong and the men of Judah numbered 30,000.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>They said to the messengers who had come, “Here’s what you should say to the men of Jabesh Gilead: ‘Tomorrow deliverance will come to you when the sun is fully up.’” When the messengers went and told the men of Jabesh Gilead, they were happy.
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>The men of Jabesh said, “Tomorrow we will come out to you and you can do with us whatever you wish.”
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>The next day Saul placed the people in three groups. They went to the Ammonite camp during the morning watch and struck them down until the hottest part of the day. The survivors scattered; no two of them remained together.
## Saul Is Established as King
###### 12
<span class=verse-first>12</span>Then the people said to Samuel, “Who were the ones asking, ‘Will Saul reign over us?’ Hand over those men so we may execute them!”
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>But Saul said, “No one will be killed on this day. For today the Lᴏʀᴅ has given Israel a victory!”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 14
<span class=verse-first>14</span>Samuel said to the people, “Come on! Let’s go to Gilgal and renew the kingship there.”
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>So all the people went to Gilgal, where they established Saul as king in the Lᴏʀᴅ’s presence. They offered up peace offerings there in the Lᴏʀᴅ’s presence. Saul and all the Israelites were very happy.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam10|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam11notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam12|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>