---
aliases: ["2 Corinthians 13", "2 Cor. 13"]
---
# 2 Corinthians 13
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[2cor12|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2cor13notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[gal1|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Paul’s Third Visit to Corinth
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>This is the third time I am coming to visit you. By the testimony of two or three witnesses every matter will be established.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>I said before when I was present the second time and now, though absent, I say again to those who sinned previously and to all the rest, that if I come again, I will not spare anyone,
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>since you are demanding proof that Christ is speaking through me. He is not weak toward you but is powerful among you.
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>For indeed he was crucified by reason of weakness, but he lives because of God’s power. For we also are weak in him, but we will live together with him, because of God’s power toward you.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 5
<span class=verse-first>5</span>Put yourselves to the test to see if you are in the faith; examine yourselves! Or do you not recognize regarding yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you—unless, indeed, you fail the test!
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>And I hope that you will realize that we have not failed the test!
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>Now we pray to God that you may not do anything wrong, not so that we may appear to have passed the test, but so that you may do what is right even if we may appear to have failed the test.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>For we cannot do anything against the truth, but only for the sake of the truth.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>For we rejoice whenever we are weak, but you are strong. And we pray for this: that you may become fully qualified.
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>Because of this I am writing these things while absent, so that when I arrive I may not have to deal harshly with you by using my authority—the Lord gave it to me for building up, not for tearing down!
## Final Exhortations and Greetings
###### 11
<span class=verse-first>11</span>Finally, brothers and sisters, rejoice, set things right, be encouraged, agree with one another, live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the saints greet you.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[2cor12|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2cor13notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[gal1|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>