---
aliases: ["2 Samuel 16", "2 Sam. 16"]
---
# 2 Samuel 16
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[2sam15|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2sam16notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2sam17|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## David Receives Gifts from Ziba
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>When David had gone a short way beyond the summit, Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth was there to meet him. He had a couple of donkeys that were saddled, and on them were 200 loaves of bread, 100 raisin cakes, 100 baskets of summer fruit, and a container of wine.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>The king asked Ziba, “Why did you bring these things?” Ziba replied, “The donkeys are for the king’s family to ride on, the loaves of bread and the summer fruit are for the attendants to eat, and the wine is for those who get exhausted in the desert.”
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>The king asked, “Where is your master’s grandson?” Ziba replied to the king, “He remains in Jerusalem, for he said, ‘Today the house of Israel will give back to me my grandfather’s kingdom.’”
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>The king said to Ziba, “Everything that was Mephibosheth’s now belongs to you.” Ziba replied, “I bow before you. May I find favor in your sight, my lord the king.”
## Shimei Curses David and His Men
###### 5
<span class=verse-first>5</span>Then King David reached Bahurim. There a man from Saul’s extended family named Shimei son of Gera came out, yelling curses as he approached.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>He threw stones at David and all of King David’s servants, as well as all the people and the soldiers who were on his right and on his left.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>As he yelled curses, Shimei said, “Leave! Leave! You man of bloodshed, you wicked man!
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>“The Lᴏʀᴅ has punished you for all the spilled blood of the house of Saul, in whose place you rule. Now the Lᴏʀᴅ has given the kingdom into the hand of your son Absalom. Disaster has overtaken you, for you are a man of bloodshed!”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 9
<span class=verse-first>9</span>Then Abishai son of Zeruiah said to the king, “Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over and cut off his head!”
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>But the king said, “What do we have in common, you sons of Zeruiah? If he curses because the Lᴏʀᴅ has said to him, ‘Curse David!,’ who can say to him, ‘Why have you done this?’”
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>Then David said to Abishai and to all his servants, “My own son, my very own flesh and blood, is trying to take my life. So also now this Benjaminite! Leave him alone so that he can curse, for the Lᴏʀᴅ has spoken to him.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>“Perhaps the Lᴏʀᴅ will notice my affliction and this day grant me good in place of his curse.”
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>So David and his men went on their way. But Shimei kept going along the side of the hill opposite him, yelling curses as he threw stones and dirt at them.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>The king and all the people who were with him arrived exhausted at their destination, where David refreshed himself.
## The Advice of Ahithophel
###### 15
<span class=verse-first>15</span>Now when Absalom and all the men of Israel arrived in Jerusalem, Ahithophel was with him.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>When David’s friend Hushai the Arkite came to Absalom, Hushai said to him, “Long live the king! Long live the king!”
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>Absalom said to Hushai, “Do you call this loyalty to your friend? Why didn’t you go with your friend?”
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>Hushai replied to Absalom, “No, I will be loyal to the one whom the Lᴏʀᴅ, these people, and all the men of Israel have chosen.
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>“Moreover, whom should I serve? Should it not be his son? Just as I served your father, so I will serve you.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 20
<span class=verse-first>20</span>Then Absalom said to Ahithophel, “Give us your advice. What should we do?”
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>Ahithophel replied to Absalom, “Sleep with your father’s concubines whom he left to care for the palace. All Israel will hear that you have made yourself repulsive to your father. Then your followers will be motivated to support you.”
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>So they pitched a tent for Absalom on the roof, and Absalom slept with his father’s concubines in the sight of all Israel.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>In those days Ahithophel’s advice was considered as valuable as a prophetic revelation. Both David and Absalom highly regarded the advice of Ahithophel.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[2sam15|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2sam16notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2sam17|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>