---
aliases: ["2 Samuel 24", "2 Sam. 24"]
---
# 2 Samuel 24
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[2sam23|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2sam24notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1kings1|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## David Displeases the Lord by Taking a Census
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ’s anger again raged against Israel, and he incited David against them, saying, “Go count Israel and Judah.”
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>The king told Joab, the general in command of his army, “Go through all the tribes of Israel from Dan to Beer Sheba and muster the army, so I may know the size of the army.”
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>Joab replied to the king, “May the Lᴏʀᴅ your God make the army a hundred times larger right before the eyes of my lord the king! But why does my master the king want to do this?”
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>But the king’s edict stood, despite the objections of Joab and the leaders of the army. So Joab and the leaders of the army left the king’s presence in order to muster the Israelite army.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>They crossed the Jordan and camped at Aroer, on the south side of the city, at the wadi of Gad, near Jazer.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>Then they went on to Gilead and to the region of Tahtim Hodshi, coming to Dan Jaan and on around to Sidon.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>Then they went to the fortress of Tyre and all the cities of the Hivites and the Canaanites. Then they went on to the Negev of Judah, to Beer Sheba.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>They went through all the land and after nine months and twenty days came back to Jerusalem.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>Joab reported the number of warriors to the king. In Israel there were 800,000 sword-wielding warriors, and in Judah there were 500,000 soldiers.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 10
<span class=verse-first>10</span>David felt guilty after he had numbered the army. David said to the Lᴏʀᴅ, “I have sinned greatly by doing this! Now, O Lᴏʀᴅ, please remove the guilt of your servant, for I have acted very foolishly.”
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>When David got up the next morning, the Lord’s message had already come to the prophet Gad, David’s seer:
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>“Go, tell David, ‘This is what the Lᴏʀᴅ has said: I am offering you three forms of judgment. Pick one of them and I will carry it out against you.’”
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>Gad went to David and told him, “Shall seven years of famine come upon your land? Or shall you flee for three months from your enemies with them in hot pursuit? Or shall there be three days of plague in your land? Now decide what I should tell the one who sent me.”
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>David said to Gad, “I am very upset! I prefer that we be attacked by the Lᴏʀᴅ, for his mercy is great; I do not want to be attacked by human hands!”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 15
<span class=verse-first>15</span>So the Lᴏʀᴅ sent a plague through Israel from the morning until the completion of the appointed time, and 70,000 people died from Dan to Beer Sheba.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>When the angel extended his hand to destroy Jerusalem, the Lᴏʀᴅ relented from his judgment. He told the angel who was killing the people, “That’s enough! Stop now!” (Now the angel of the Lᴏʀᴅ was near the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.)
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>When he saw the angel who was destroying the people, David said to the Lᴏʀᴅ, “Look, it is I who have sinned and done this evil thing! As for these sheep—what have they done? Attack me and my family.”
## David Acquires a Threshing Floor and Constructs an Altar There
###### 18
<span class=verse-first>18</span>So Gad went to David that day and told him, “Go up and build an altar for the Lᴏʀᴅ on the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.”
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>So David went up as Gad instructed him to do, according to the Lᴏʀᴅ’s instructions.
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>When Araunah looked out and saw the king and his servants approaching him, he went out and bowed to the king with his face to the ground.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>Araunah said, “Why has my lord the king come to his servant?” David replied, “To buy from you the threshing floor so I can build an altar for the Lᴏʀᴅ, so that the plague may be removed from the people.”
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>Araunah told David, “My lord the king may take whatever he wishes and offer it. Look! Here are oxen for burnt offerings, and threshing sledges and harnesses for wood.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>“I, the servant of my lord the king, give it all to the king!” Araunah also told the king, “May the Lᴏʀᴅ your God show you favor!”
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>But the king said to Araunah, “No, I insist on buying it from you! I will not offer to the Lᴏʀᴅ my God burnt sacrifices that cost me nothing.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

So David bought the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty pieces of silver.
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>Then David built an altar for the Lᴏʀᴅ there and offered burnt sacrifices and peace offerings. And the Lᴏʀᴅ accepted prayers for the land, and the plague was removed from Israel.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[2sam23|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2sam24notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1kings1|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>