---
aliases: ["Exodus 14", "Ex. 14"]
---
# Exodus 14
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex13|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex14notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex15|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## The Victory at the Red Sea
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ spoke to Moses,
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>“Tell the Israelites that they must turn and camp before Pi Hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea; you are to camp by the sea before Baal Zephon opposite it.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>“Pharaoh will think regarding the Israelites, ‘They are wandering around confused in the land—the desert has closed in on them.’
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>“I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and he will chase after them. I will gain honor because of Pharaoh and because of all his army, and the Egyptians will know that I am the Lᴏʀᴅ.” So this is what they did.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 5
<span class=verse-first>5</span>When it was reported to the king of Egypt that the people had fled, the heart of Pharaoh and his servants was turned against the people, and the king and his servants said, “What in the world have we done? For we have released the people of Israel from serving us!”
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>Then he prepared his chariots and took his army with him.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>He took 600 select chariots, and all the rest of the chariots of Egypt, and officers on all of them.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>But the Lᴏʀᴅ hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he chased after the Israelites. Now the Israelites were going out defiantly.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>The Egyptians chased after them, and all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh and his horsemen and his army overtook them camping by the sea, beside Pi Hahiroth, before Baal Zephon.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 10
<span class=verse-first>10</span>When Pharaoh got closer, the Israelites looked up, and there were the Egyptians marching after them, and they were terrified. The Israelites cried out to the Lᴏʀᴅ,
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>and they said to Moses, “Is it because there are no graves in Egypt that you have taken us away to die in the desert? What in the world have you done to us by bringing us out of Egypt?
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>“Isn’t this what we told you in Egypt, ‘Leave us alone so that we can serve the Egyptians, because it is better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the desert!’”
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>Moses said to the people, “Do not fear! Stand firm and see the salvation of the Lᴏʀᴅ that he will provide for you today; for the Egyptians that you see today you will never, ever see again.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>“The Lᴏʀᴅ will fight for you, and you can be still.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 15
<span class=verse-first>15</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses, “Why do you cry out to me? Tell the Israelites to move on.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>“And as for you, lift up your staff and extend your hand toward the sea and divide it, so that the Israelites may go through the middle of the sea on dry ground.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>“And as for me, I am going to harden the hearts of the Egyptians so that they will come after them, that I may be honored because of Pharaoh and his army and his chariots and his horsemen.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>“And the Egyptians will know that I am the Lᴏʀᴅ when I have gained my honor because of Pharaoh, his chariots, and his horsemen.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 19
<span class=verse-first>19</span>The angel of God, who was going before the camp of Israel, moved and went behind them, and the pillar of cloud moved from before them and stood behind them.
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>It came between the Egyptian camp and the Israelite camp; it was a dark cloud and it lit up the night so that one camp did not come near the other the whole night.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 21
<span class=verse-first>21</span>Moses stretched out his hand toward the sea, and the Lᴏʀᴅ drove the sea apart by a strong east wind all that night, and he made the sea into dry land, and the water was divided.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>So the Israelites went through the middle of the sea on dry ground, the water forming a wall for them on their right and on their left.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>The Egyptians chased them and followed them into the middle of the sea—all the horses of Pharaoh, his chariots, and his horsemen.
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>In the morning watch the Lᴏʀᴅ looked down on the Egyptian army through the pillar of fire and cloud, and he threw the Egyptian army into a panic.
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>He jammed the wheels of their chariots so that they had difficulty driving, and the Egyptians said, “Let’s flee from Israel, for the Lᴏʀᴅ fights for them against Egypt!”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 26
<span class=verse-first>26</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses, “Extend your hand toward the sea, so that the waters may flow back on the Egyptians, on their chariots, and on their horsemen!”
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>So Moses extended his hand toward the sea, and the sea returned to its normal state when the sun began to rise. Now the Egyptians were fleeing before it, but the Lᴏʀᴅ overthrew the Egyptians in the middle of the sea.
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>The water returned and covered the chariots and the horsemen and all the army of Pharaoh that was coming after the Israelites into the sea—not so much as one of them survived!
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span>But the Israelites walked on dry ground in the middle of the sea, the water forming a wall for them on their right and on their left.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 30
<span class=verse-first>30</span>So the Lᴏʀᴅ saved Israel on that day from the power of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the shore of the sea.
###### 31
<span class=verse-body>31</span>When Israel saw the great power that the Lᴏʀᴅ had exercised over the Egyptians, they feared the Lᴏʀᴅ, and they believed in the Lᴏʀᴅ and in his servant Moses.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex13|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex14notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex15|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>