---
aliases: ["Exodus 17", "Ex. 17"]
---
# Exodus 17
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex16|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex17notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex18|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Water at Massah and Meribah
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>The whole community of the Israelites traveled on their journey from the wilderness of Sin according to the Lᴏʀᴅ’s instruction, and they pitched camp in Rephidim. Now there was no water for the people to drink.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>So the people contended with Moses, and they said, “Give us water to drink!” Moses said to them, “Why do you contend with me? Why do you test the Lord?”
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>But the people were very thirsty there for water, and they murmured against Moses and said, “Why in the world did you bring us up from Egypt—to kill us and our children and our cattle with thirst?”
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>Then Moses cried out to the Lᴏʀᴅ, “What will I do with this people?—a little more and they will stone me!”
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses, “Go over before the people; take with you some of the elders of Israel and take in your hand your staff with which you struck the Nile and go.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>“I will be standing before you there on the rock in Horeb, and you will strike the rock, and water will come out of it so that the people may drink.” And Moses did so in plain view of the elders of Israel.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>He called the name of the place Massah and Meribah, because of the contending of the Israelites and because of their testing the Lᴏʀᴅ, saying, “Is the Lᴏʀᴅ among us or not?”
## Victory over the Amalekites
###### 8
<span class=verse-first>8</span>Amalek came and attacked Israel in Rephidim.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>So Moses said to Joshua, “Choose some of our men and go out, fight against Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill with the staff of God in my hand.”
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>So Joshua fought against Amalek just as Moses had instructed him, and Moses and Aaron and Hur went up to the top of the hill.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>Whenever Moses would raise his hands, then Israel prevailed, but whenever he would rest his hands, then Amalek prevailed.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>When the hands of Moses became heavy, they took a stone and put it under him, and Aaron and Hur held up his hands, one on one side and one on the other, and so his hands were steady until the sun went down.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>So Joshua destroyed Amalek and his army with the sword.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 14
<span class=verse-first>14</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses, “Write this as a memorial in the book, and rehearse it in Joshua’s hearing; for I will surely wipe out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven.”
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>Moses built an altar, and he called it “The Lᴏʀᴅ is my Banner,”
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>for he said, “For a hand was lifted up to the throne of the Lᴏʀᴅ—that the Lᴏʀᴅ will have war with Amalek from generation to generation.”
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex16|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex17notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex18|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>