---
aliases: ["Exodus 36", "Ex. 36"]
---
# Exodus 36
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex35|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex36notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex37|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>So Bezalel and Oholiab and every skilled person in whom the Lᴏʀᴅ has put skill and ability to know how to do all the work for the service of the sanctuary are to do the work according to all that the Lᴏʀᴅ has commanded.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 2
<span class=verse-first>2</span>Moses summoned Bezalel and Oholiab and every skilled person in whom the Lᴏʀᴅ had put skill—everyone whose heart stirred him to volunteer to do the work.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>They received from Moses all the offerings the Israelites had brought to do the work for the service of the sanctuary, and they still continued to bring him a freewill offering each morning.
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>So all the skilled people who were doing all the work on the sanctuary came from the work they were doing
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>and told Moses, “The people are bringing much more than is needed for the completion of the work which the Lᴏʀᴅ commanded us to do!”
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>Moses instructed them to take his message throughout the camp, saying, “Let no man or woman do anymore work for the offering for the sanctuary.” So the people were restrained from bringing any more.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>Now the materials were more than enough for them to do all the work.
## The Building of the Tabernacle
###### 8
<span class=verse-first>8</span>All the skilled among those who were doing the work made the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twisted linen and blue and purple and scarlet yarn; they were made with cherubim that were the work of an artistic designer.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>The length of one curtain was 42 feet, and the width of one curtain was 6 feet—the same size for each of the curtains.
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>He joined five of the curtains to one another, and the other five curtains he joined to one another.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>He made loops of blue material along the edge of the end curtain in the first set; he did the same along the edge of the end curtain in the second set.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>He made fifty loops on the first curtain, and he made fifty loops on the end curtain that was in the second set, with the loops opposite one another.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>He made fifty gold clasps and joined the curtains together to one another with the clasps, so that the tabernacle was a unit.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 14
<span class=verse-first>14</span>He made curtains of goats’ hair for a tent over the tabernacle; he made eleven curtains.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>The length of one curtain was 45 feet, and the width of one curtain was 6 feet—one size for all eleven curtains.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>He joined five curtains by themselves and six curtains by themselves.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>He made fifty loops along the edge of the end curtain in the first set and fifty loops along the edge of the curtain that joined the second set.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>He made fifty bronze clasps to join the tent together so that it might be a unit.
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>He made a covering for the tent out of ram skins dyed red and over that a covering of fine leather.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 20
<span class=verse-first>20</span>He made the frames for the tabernacle of acacia wood as uprights.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>The length of each frame was 15 feet, the width of each frame was 2¼ feet,
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>with two projections per frame parallel one to another. He made all the frames of the tabernacle in this way.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>So he made frames for the tabernacle: twenty frames for the south side.
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>He made forty silver bases under the twenty frames—two bases under the first frame for its two projections, and likewise two bases under the next frame for its two projections,
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>and for the second side of the tabernacle, the north side, he made twenty frames
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>and their forty silver bases, two bases under the first frame and two bases under the next frame.
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>And for the back of the tabernacle on the west he made six frames.
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>He made two frames for the corners of the tabernacle on the back.
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span>At the two corners they were doubled at the lower end and finished together at the top in one ring. So he did for both.
###### 30
<span class=verse-body>30</span>So there were eight frames and their silver bases, sixteen bases, two bases under each frame.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 31
<span class=verse-first>31</span>He made bars of acacia wood, five for the frames on one side of the tabernacle
###### 32
<span class=verse-body>32</span>and five bars for the frames on the second side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the frames of the tabernacle for the back side on the west.
###### 33
<span class=verse-body>33</span>He made the middle bar to reach from end to end in the center of the frames.
###### 34
<span class=verse-body>34</span>He overlaid the frames with gold and made their rings of gold to provide places for the bars, and he overlaid the bars with gold.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 35
<span class=verse-first>35</span>He made the special curtain of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and fine twisted linen; he made it with cherubim, the work of an artistic designer.
###### 36
<span class=verse-body>36</span>He made for it four posts of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold, with gold hooks, and he cast for them four silver bases.
###### 37
<span class=verse-body>37</span>He made a hanging for the entrance of the tent of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and fine twisted linen, the work of an embroiderer,
###### 38
<span class=verse-body>38</span>and its five posts and their hooks. He overlaid their tops and their bands with gold, but their five bases were bronze.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex35|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex36notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex37|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>