---
aliases: ["Exodus 37", "Ex. 37"]
---
# Exodus 37
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex36|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex37notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex38|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## The Making of the Ark
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>Bezalel made the ark of acacia wood; its length was 45 inches, its width 27 inches, and its height 27 inches.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>He overlaid it with pure gold, inside and out, and he made a surrounding border of gold for it.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>He cast four gold rings for it that he put on its four feet, with two rings on one side and two rings on the other side.
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>He made poles of acacia wood, overlaid them with gold,
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>and put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark in order to carry the ark.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>He made an atonement lid of pure gold; its length was 45 inches, and its width was 27 inches.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>He made two cherubim of gold; he made them of hammered metal on the two ends of the atonement lid,
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>one cherub on one end and one cherub on the other end. He made the cherubim from the atonement lid on its two ends.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>The cherubim were spreading their wings upward, overshadowing the atonement lid with their wings. The cherubim faced each other, looking toward the atonement lid.
## The Making of the Table
###### 10
<span class=verse-first>10</span>Bezalel made the table of acacia wood; its length was 36 inches, its width 18 inches, and its height 27 inches.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>He overlaid it with pure gold, and he made a surrounding border of gold for it.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>He made a surrounding frame for it about three inches wide, and he made a surrounding border of gold for its frame.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>He cast four gold rings for it and attached the rings at the four corners where its four legs were.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>The rings were close to the frame to provide places for the poles to carry the table.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>He made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold, to carry the table.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>He made the vessels which were on the table out of pure gold, its plates, its ladles, its pitchers, and its bowls, to be used in pouring out offerings.
## The Making of the Lampstand
###### 17
<span class=verse-first>17</span>Bezalel made the lampstand of pure gold. He made the lampstand of hammered metal; its base and its shaft, its cups, its buds, and its blossoms were from the same piece.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>Six branches were extending from its sides, three branches of the lampstand from one side of it, and three branches of the lampstand from the other side of it.
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>Three cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms were on the first branch, and three cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms were on the next branch, and the same for the six branches that were extending from the lampstand.
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>On the lampstand there were four cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms,
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>with a bud under the first two branches from it, and a bud under the next two branches from it, and a bud under the third two branches from it; according to the six branches that extended from it.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>Their buds and their branches were of one piece; all of it was one hammered piece of pure gold.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>He made its seven lamps, its trimmers, and its trays of pure gold.
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>He made the lampstand and all its accessories with seventy-five pounds of pure gold.
## The Making of the Altar of Incense
###### 25
<span class=verse-first>25</span>Bezalel made the incense altar of acacia wood. Its length was 18 inches and its width 18 inches—a square—and its height was 36 inches. Its horns were of one piece with it.
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>He overlaid it with pure gold—its top, its four walls, and its horns—and he made a surrounding border of gold for it.
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>He also made two gold rings for it under its border, on its two sides, on opposite sides, as places for poles to carry it with.
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>He made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold.
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span>He made the sacred anointing oil and the pure fragrant incense, the work of a perfumer.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex36|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex37notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex38|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>