---
aliases: ["Psalm 45", "Ps. 45"]
---
# Psalm 45
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps44|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps45notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps46|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
><span class=verse-first-poetry>1</span>My heart is stirred by a beautiful song.
>I say, “I have composed this special song for the king;
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>My tongue is as skilled as the stylus of an experienced scribe.”
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span>You are the most handsome of all men.
>You speak in an impressive and fitting manner.
>For this reason God grants you continual blessings.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 3
><span class=verse-first-poetry>3</span>Strap your sword to your thigh, O warrior.
>Appear in your majestic splendor.
###### 4
><span class=verse-body-poetry>4</span>Appear in your majesty and be victorious.
>Ride forth for the sake of what is right,
>On behalf of justice.
>Then your right hand will accomplish mighty acts.
###### 5
><span class=verse-body-poetry>5</span>Your arrows are sharp
>And penetrate the hearts of the king’s enemies.
>Nations fall at your feet.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 6
><span class=verse-first-poetry>6</span>Your throne, O God, is permanent.
>The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of justice.
###### 7
><span class=verse-body-poetry>7</span>You love justice and hate evil.
>For this reason God, your God, has anointed you
>With the oil of joy, elevating you above your companions.
###### 8
><span class=verse-body-poetry>8</span>All your garments are perfumed with myrrh, aloes, and cassia.
>From the luxurious palaces comes the music of stringed instruments that makes you happy.
###### 9
><span class=verse-body-poetry>9</span>Princesses are among your honored women.
>Your bride stands at your right hand, wearing jewelry made with gold from Ophir.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 10
><span class=verse-first-poetry>10</span>Listen, O princess.
>Observe and pay attention!
>Forget your homeland and your family.
###### 11
><span class=verse-body-poetry>11</span>Then the king will be attracted by your beauty.
>After all, he is your master. Submit to him.
###### 12
><span class=verse-body-poetry>12</span>Rich people from Tyre
>Will seek your favor by bringing a gift.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 13
><span class=verse-first-poetry>13</span>The princess looks absolutely magnificent,
>Decked out in pearls and clothed in a brocade trimmed with gold.
###### 14
><span class=verse-body-poetry>14</span>In embroidered robes she is escorted to the king.
>Her attendants, the maidens of honor who follow her,
>Are led before you.
###### 15
><span class=verse-body-poetry>15</span>They are bubbling with joy as they walk in procession
>And enter the royal palace.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 16
><span class=verse-first-poetry>16</span>Your sons will carry on the dynasty of your ancestors;
>You will make them princes throughout the land.
###### 17
><span class=verse-body-poetry>17</span>I will proclaim your greatness through the coming years,
>Then the nations will praise you forever.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps44|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps45notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps46|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>