---
aliases: ["Psalm 74", "Ps. 74"]
---
# Psalm 74
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps73|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps74notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps75|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
><span class=verse-first-poetry>1</span>Why, O God, have you permanently rejected us?
>Why does your anger burn against the sheep of your pasture?
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span>Remember your people whom you acquired in ancient times,
>Whom you rescued so they could be your very own nation,
>As well as Mount Zion, where you dwell.
###### 3
><span class=verse-body-poetry>3</span>Hurry to the permanent ruins,
>And to all the damage the enemy has done to the temple.
###### 4
><span class=verse-body-poetry>4</span>Your enemies roar in the middle of your sanctuary;
>They set up their battle flags.
###### 5
><span class=verse-body-poetry>5</span>They invade like lumberjacks
>Swinging their axes in a thick forest.
###### 6
><span class=verse-body-poetry>6</span>And now they are tearing down all its engravings
>With axes and crowbars.
###### 7
><span class=verse-body-poetry>7</span>They set your sanctuary on fire;
>They desecrate your dwelling place by knocking it to the ground.
###### 8
><span class=verse-body-poetry>8</span>They say to themselves,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>We will oppress all of them.”
>They burn down all the places in the land where people worship God.
###### 9
><span class=verse-body-poetry>9</span>We do not see any signs of God’s presence;
>There are no longer any prophets,
>And we have no one to tell us how long this will last.
###### 10
><span class=verse-body-poetry>10</span>How long, O God, will the adversary hurl insults?
>Will the enemy blaspheme your name forever?
###### 11
><span class=verse-body-poetry>11</span>Why do you remain inactive?
>Intervene and destroy him.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 12
><span class=verse-first-poetry>12</span>But God has been my king from ancient times,
>Performing acts of deliverance on the earth.
###### 13
><span class=verse-body-poetry>13</span>You destroyed the sea by your strength;
>You shattered the heads of the sea monster in the water.
###### 14
><span class=verse-body-poetry>14</span>You crushed the heads of Leviathan;
>You fed him to the people who live along the coast.
###### 15
><span class=verse-body-poetry>15</span>You broke open the spring and the stream;
>You dried up perpetually flowing rivers.
###### 16
><span class=verse-body-poetry>16</span>You established the cycle of day and night;
>You put the moon and sun in place.
###### 17
><span class=verse-body-poetry>17</span>You set up all the boundaries of the earth;
>You created the cycle of summer and winter.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 18
><span class=verse-first-poetry>18</span>Remember how the enemy hurls insults, O Lᴏʀᴅ,
>And how a foolish nation blasphemes your name.
###### 19
><span class=verse-body-poetry>19</span>Do not hand the life of your dove over to a wild animal.
>Do not continue to disregard the lives of your oppressed people.
###### 20
><span class=verse-body-poetry>20</span>Remember your covenant promises,
>For the dark regions of the earth are full of places where violence rules.
###### 21
><span class=verse-body-poetry>21</span>Do not let the afflicted be turned back in shame.
>Let the oppressed and poor praise your name.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 22
><span class=verse-first-poetry>22</span>Rise up, O God. Defend your honor.
>Remember how fools insult you all day long.
###### 23
><span class=verse-body-poetry>23</span>Do not disregard what your enemies say,
>Or the unceasing shouts of those who defy you.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps73|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps74notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps75|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>