---
aliases: ["Psalm 79", "Ps. 79"]
---
# Psalm 79
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps78|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps79notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps80|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
><span class=verse-first-poetry>1</span>O God, foreigners have invaded your chosen land;
>They have polluted your holy temple
>And turned Jerusalem into a heap of ruins.
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span>They have given the corpses of your servants
>To the birds of the sky,
>The flesh of your loyal followers
>To the beasts of the earth.
###### 3
><span class=verse-body-poetry>3</span>They have made their blood flow like water
>All around Jerusalem, and there is no one to bury them.
###### 4
><span class=verse-body-poetry>4</span>We have become an object of disdain to our neighbors;
>Those who live on our borders taunt and insult us.
###### 5
><span class=verse-body-poetry>5</span>How long will this go on, O Lᴏʀᴅ?
>Will you stay angry forever?
>How long will your rage burn like fire?
###### 6
><span class=verse-body-poetry>6</span>Pour out your anger on the nations that do not acknowledge you,
>On the kingdoms that do not pray to you.
###### 7
><span class=verse-body-poetry>7</span>For they have devoured Jacob
>And destroyed his home.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 8
><span class=verse-first-poetry>8</span>Do not hold us accountable for the sins of earlier generations.
>Quickly send your compassion our way,
>For we are in serious trouble.
###### 9
><span class=verse-body-poetry>9</span>Help us, O God, our deliverer!
>For the sake of your glorious reputation, rescue us.
>Forgive our sins for the sake of your reputation.
###### 10
><span class=verse-body-poetry>10</span>Why should the nations say, “Where is their God?”
>Before our very eyes may the shed blood of your servants
>Be avenged among the nations.
###### 11
><span class=verse-body-poetry>11</span>Listen to the painful cries of the prisoners.
>Use your great strength to set free those condemned to die.
###### 12
><span class=verse-body-poetry>12</span>Pay back our neighbors in full.
>May they be insulted the same way they insulted you, O Lord.
###### 13
><span class=verse-body-poetry>13</span>Then we, your people, the sheep of your pasture,
>Will continually thank you.
>We will tell coming generations of your praiseworthy acts.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps78|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps79notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps80|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>