---
aliases: ["1 Corinthians 16", "1 Cor. 16"]
---
# 1 Corinthians 16
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1cor15|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor16notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2cor1|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## A Collection to Aid Jewish Christians
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>With regard to the collection for the saints, please follow the directions that I gave to the churches of Galatia:
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>On the first day of the week, each of you should set aside some income and save it to the extent that God has blessed you, so that a collection will not have to be made when I come.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>Then, when I arrive, I will send those whom you approve with letters of explanation to carry your gift to Jerusalem.
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>And if it seems advisable that I should go also, they will go with me.
## Paul’s Plans to Visit
###### 5
<span class=verse-first>5</span>But I will come to you after I have gone through Macedonia—for I will be going through Macedonia—
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>and perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter, so that you can send me on my journey, wherever I go.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>For I do not want to see you now in passing, since I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord allows.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost,
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>because a door of great opportunity stands wide open for me, but there are many opponents.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 10
<span class=verse-first>10</span>Now if Timothy comes, see that he has nothing to fear among you, for he is doing the Lord’s work, as I am too.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>So then, let no one treat him with contempt. But send him on his way in peace so that he may come to me. For I am expecting him with the brothers.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 12
<span class=verse-first>12</span>With regard to our brother Apollos: I strongly encouraged him to visit you with the other brothers, but it was simply not his intention to come now. He will come when he has the opportunity.
## Final Challenge and Blessing
###### 13
<span class=verse-first>13</span>Stay alert, stand firm in the faith, show courage, be strong.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>Everything you do should be done in love.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 15
<span class=verse-first>15</span>Now, brothers and sisters, you know about the household of Stephanus, that as the first converts of Achaia, they devoted themselves to ministry for the saints. I urge you
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>also to submit to people like this, and to everyone who cooperates in the work and labors hard.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>I was glad about the arrival of Stephanus, Fortunatus, and Achaicus because they have supplied the fellowship with you that I lacked.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>For they refreshed my spirit and yours. So then, recognize people like this.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 19
<span class=verse-first>19</span>The churches in the province of Asia send greetings to you. Aquila and Prisca greet you warmly in the Lord, with the church that meets in their house.
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>All the brothers and sisters send greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 21
<span class=verse-first>21</span>I, Paul, send this greeting with my own hand.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>Let anyone who has no love for the Lord be accursed. Our Lord, come!
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>My love be with all of you in Christ Jesus.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1cor15|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor16notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2cor1|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>