---
aliases: ["1 Corinthians 13", "1 Cor. 13"]
---
# 1 Corinthians 13
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1cor12|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor13notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor14|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## The Way of Love
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but I do not have love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>And if I have prophecy, and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so that I can remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>If I give away everything I own, and if I give over my body in order to boast, but do not have love, I receive no benefit.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 4
<span class=verse-first>4</span>Love is patient, love is kind, it is not envious. Love does not brag, it is not puffed up.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>It is not rude, it is not self-serving, it is not easily angered or resentful.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>It is not glad about injustice, but rejoices in the truth.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>It bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 8
<span class=verse-first>8</span>Love never ends. But if there are prophecies, they will be set aside; if there are tongues, they will cease; if there is knowledge, it will be set aside.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>For we know in part, and we prophesy in part,
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>but when what is perfect comes, the partial will be set aside.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>When I was a child, I talked like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. But when I became an adult, I set aside childish ways.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>For now we see in a mirror indirectly, but then we will see face to face. Now I know in part, but then I will know fully, just as I have been fully known.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>And now these three remain: faith, hope, and love. But the greatest of these is love.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1cor12|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor13notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor14|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>