---
aliases: ["1 Corinthians 12", "1 Cor. 12"]
---
# 1 Corinthians 12
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1cor11|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor12notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor13|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Spiritual Gifts
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>With regard to spiritual gifts, brothers and sisters, I do not want you to be uninformed.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>You know that when you were pagans you were often led astray by speechless idols, however you were led.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>So I want you to understand that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says, “Jesus is cursed,” and no one can say, “Jesus is Lord,” except by the Holy Spirit.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 4
<span class=verse-first>4</span>Now there are different gifts, but the same Spirit.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>And there are different ministries, but the same Lord.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>And there are different results, but the same God who produces all of them in everyone.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>To each person the manifestation of the Spirit is given for the benefit of all.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>For one person is given through the Spirit the message of wisdom, and another the message of knowledge according to the same Spirit,
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>to another faith by the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit,
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>to another performance of miracles, to another prophecy, and to another discernment of spirits, to another different kinds of tongues, and to another the interpretation of tongues.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>It is one and the same Spirit, distributing as he decides to each person, who produces all these things.
## Different Members in One Body
###### 12
<span class=verse-first>12</span>For just as the body is one and yet has many members, and all the members of the body—though many—are one body, so too is Christ.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body. Whether Jews or Greeks or slaves or free, we were all made to drink of the one Spirit.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 14
<span class=verse-first>14</span>For in fact the body is not a single member, but many.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>If the foot says, “Since I am not a hand, I am not part of the body,” it does not lose its membership in the body because of that.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>And if the ear says, “Since I am not an eye, I am not part of the body,” it does not lose its membership in the body because of that.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>If the whole body were an eye, what part would do the hearing? If the whole were an ear, what part would exercise the sense of smell?
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>But as a matter of fact, God has placed each of the members in the body just as he decided.
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>If they were all the same member, where would the body be?
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>So now there are many members, but one body.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>The eye cannot say to the hand, “I do not need you,” nor in turn can the head say to the foot, “I do not need you.”
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>On the contrary, those members that seem to be weaker are essential,
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>and those members we consider less honorable we clothe with greater honor, and our unpresentable members are clothed with dignity,
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>but our presentable members do not need this. Instead, God has blended together the body, giving greater honor to the lesser member,
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>so that there may be no division in the body, but the members may have mutual concern for one another.
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>If one member suffers, everyone suffers with it. If a member is honored, all rejoice with it.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 27
<span class=verse-first>27</span>Now you are Christ’s body, and each of you is a member of it.
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>And God has placed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, gifts of healing, helps, gifts of leadership, different kinds of tongues.
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span>Not all are apostles, are they? Not all are prophets, are they? Not all are teachers, are they? Not all perform miracles, do they?
###### 30
<span class=verse-body>30</span>Not all have gifts of healing, do they? Not all speak in tongues, do they? Not all interpret, do they?
###### 31
<span class=verse-body>31</span>But you should be eager for the greater gifts.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

And now I will show you a way that is beyond comparison.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1cor11|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor12notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor13|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>