---
aliases: ["1 Corinthians 15", "1 Cor. 15"]
---
# 1 Corinthians 15
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1cor14|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor15notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor16|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Christ’s Resurrection
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>Now I want to make clear for you, brothers and sisters, the gospel that I preached to you, that you received and on which you stand,
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>and by which you are being saved, if you hold firmly to the message I preached to you—unless you believed in vain.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 3
<span class=verse-first>3</span>For I passed on to you as of first importance what I also received—that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures,
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>and that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures,
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>Then he appeared to more than 500 of the brothers and sisters at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>Last of all, as though to one born at the wrong time, he appeared to me also.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace to me has not been in vain. In fact, I worked harder than all of them—yet not I, but the grace of God with me.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>Whether then it was I or they, this is the way we preach and this is the way you believed.
## No Resurrection?
###### 12
<span class=verse-first>12</span>Now if Christ is being preached as raised from the dead, how can some of you say there is no resurrection of the dead?
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is futile and your faith is empty.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>Also, we are found to be false witnesses about God, because we have testified against God that he raised Christ from the dead, when in reality he did not raise him, if indeed the dead are not raised.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>For if the dead are not raised, then not even Christ has been raised.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is useless; you are still in your sins.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>Furthermore, those who have fallen asleep in Christ have also perished.
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>For if only in this life we have hope in Christ, we should be pitied more than anyone.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 20
<span class=verse-first>20</span>But now Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead also came through a man.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>For just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>But each in his own order: Christ, the firstfruits; then when Christ comes, those who belong to him.
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>Then comes the end, when he hands over the kingdom to God the Father, when he has brought to an end all rule and all authority and power.
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>The last enemy to be eliminated is death.
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>For he has put everything in subjection under his feet. But when it says “everything” has been put in subjection, it is clear that this does not include the one who put everything in subjection to him.
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>And when all things are subjected to him, then the Son himself will be subjected to the one who subjected everything to him, so that God may be all in all.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 29
<span class=verse-first>29</span>Otherwise, what will those do who are baptized for the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, then why are they baptized for them?
###### 30
<span class=verse-body>30</span>Why too are we in danger every hour?
###### 31
<span class=verse-body>31</span>Every day I am in danger of death! This is as sure as my boasting in you, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord.
###### 32
<span class=verse-body>32</span>If from a human point of view I fought with wild beasts at Ephesus, what did it benefit me? If the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.
###### 33
<span class=verse-body>33</span>Do not be deceived: “Bad company corrupts good morals.”
###### 34
<span class=verse-body>34</span>Sober up as you should, and stop sinning! For some have no knowledge of God—I say this to your shame!
## The Resurrection Body
###### 35
<span class=verse-first>35</span>But someone will say, “How are the dead raised? With what kind of body will they come?”
###### 36
<span class=verse-body>36</span>Fool! What you sow will not come to life unless it dies.
###### 37
<span class=verse-body>37</span>And what you sow is not the body that is to be, but a bare seed—perhaps of wheat or something else.
###### 38
<span class=verse-body>38</span>But God gives it a body just as he planned, and to each of the seeds a body of its own.
###### 39
<span class=verse-body>39</span>All flesh is not the same: People have one flesh, animals have another, birds and fish another.
###### 40
<span class=verse-body>40</span>And there are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies. The glory of the heavenly body is one sort and the earthly another.
###### 41
<span class=verse-body>41</span>There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon and another glory of the stars, for star differs from star in glory.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 42
<span class=verse-first>42</span>It is the same with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable, what is raised is imperishable.
###### 43
<span class=verse-body>43</span>It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power;
###### 44
<span class=verse-body>44</span>it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body.
###### 45
<span class=verse-body>45</span>So also it is written, “The first man, Adam, became a living person”; the last Adam became a life-giving spirit.
###### 46
<span class=verse-body>46</span>However, the spiritual did not come first, but the natural, and then the spiritual.
###### 47
<span class=verse-body>47</span>The first man is from the earth, made of dust; the second man is from heaven.
###### 48
<span class=verse-body>48</span>Like the one made of dust, so too are those made of dust, and like the one from heaven, so too those who are heavenly.
###### 49
<span class=verse-body>49</span>And just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, let us also bear the image of the man of heaven.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 50
<span class=verse-first>50</span>Now this is what I am saying, brothers and sisters: Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable.
###### 51
<span class=verse-body>51</span>Listen, I will tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed—
###### 52
<span class=verse-body>52</span>in a moment, in the blinking of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed.
###### 53
<span class=verse-body>53</span>For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality.
###### 54
<span class=verse-body>54</span>Now when this perishable puts on the imperishable, and this mortal puts on immortality, then the saying that is written will happen,
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Death has been swallowed up in victory.”
###### 55
><span class=verse-body-poetry>55</span><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Where, O death, is your victory?
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Where, O death, is your sting?”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 56
<span class=verse-body>56</span>The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
###### 57
<span class=verse-body>57</span>But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ!
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 58
<span class=verse-first>58</span>So then, dear brothers and sisters, be firm. Do not be moved! Always be outstanding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1cor14|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor15notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor16|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>