---
aliases: ["1 Corinthians 10", "1 Cor. 10"]
---
# 1 Corinthians 10
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1cor9|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor10notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor11|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Learning from Israel’s Failures
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>For I do not want you to be unaware, brothers and sisters, that our fathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea,
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea,
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>and all ate the same spiritual food,
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they were all drinking from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>But God was not pleased with most of them, for they were cut down in the wilderness.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>These things happened as examples for us, so that we will not crave evil things as they did.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 7
<span class=verse-first>7</span>So do not be idolaters, as some of them were. As it is written, “The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.”
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>And let us not be immoral, as some of them were, and 23,000 died in a single day.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>And let us not put Christ to the test, as some of them did, and were destroyed by snakes.
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>And do not complain, as some of them did, and were killed by the destroying angel.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>These things happened to them as examples and were written for our instruction, on whom the ends of the ages have come.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>So let the one who thinks he is standing be careful that he does not fall.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>No trial has overtaken you that is not faced by others. And God is faithful: He will not let you be tried beyond what you are able to bear, but with the trial will also provide a way out so that you may be able to endure it.
## Avoid Idol Feasts
###### 14
<span class=verse-first>14</span>So then, my dear friends, flee from idolatry.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>I am speaking to thoughtful people. Consider what I say.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>Is not the cup of blessing that we bless a sharing in the blood of Christ? Is not the bread that we break a sharing in the body of Christ?
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all share the one bread.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>Look at the people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices partners in the altar?
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>Am I saying that idols or food sacrificed to them amount to anything?
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>No, I mean that what the pagans sacrifice is to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be partners with demons.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot take part in the table of the Lord and the table of demons.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>Or are we trying to provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we really stronger than he is?
## Live to Glorify God
###### 23
<span class=verse-first>23</span>“Everything is lawful,” but not everything is beneficial. “Everything is lawful,” but not everything builds others up.
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>Do not seek your own good, but the good of the other person.
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>Eat anything that is sold in the marketplace without questions of conscience,
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>for the earth and its abundance are the Lord’s.
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>If an unbeliever invites you to dinner and you want to go, eat whatever is served without asking questions of conscience.
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>But if someone says to you, “This is from a sacrifice,” do not eat, because of the one who told you and because of conscience—
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span>I do not mean yours but the other person’s. For why is my freedom being judged by another’s conscience?
###### 30
<span class=verse-body>30</span>If I partake with thankfulness, why am I blamed for the food that I give thanks for?
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 31
<span class=verse-first>31</span>So whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do everything for the glory of God.
###### 32
<span class=verse-body>32</span>Do not give offense to Jews or Greeks or to the church of God,
###### 33
<span class=verse-body>33</span>just as I also try to please everyone in all things. I do not seek my own benefit, but the benefit of many, so that they may be saved.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1cor9|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor10notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1cor11|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>