---
aliases: ["1 Samuel 21", "1 Sam. 21"]
---
# 1 Samuel 21
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam20|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam21notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam22|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span> David went to Ahimelech the priest in Nob. Ahimelech was shaking with fear when he met David, and said to him, “Why are you by yourself with no one accompanying you?”
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>David replied to Ahimelech the priest, “The king instructed me to do something, but he said to me, ‘Don’t let anyone know the reason I am sending you or the instructions I have given you.’ I have told my soldiers to wait at a certain place.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>“Now what do you have at your disposal? Give me five loaves of bread, or whatever can be found.”
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>The priest replied to David, “I don’t have any ordinary bread at my disposal. Only holy bread is available, and then only if your soldiers have abstained from relations with women.”
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>David said to the priest, “Certainly women have been kept away from us, just as on previous occasions when I have set out. The soldiers’ equipment is holy, even on an ordinary journey. How much more so will they be holy today, along with their equipment!”
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>So the priest gave him holy bread, for there was no bread there other than the Bread of the Presence. It had been removed from before the Lᴏʀᴅ in order to replace it with hot bread on the day it had been taken away.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 7
<span class=verse-first>7</span>(One of Saul’s servants was there that day, detained before the Lᴏʀᴅ. His name was Doeg the Edomite, who was in charge of Saul’s shepherds.)
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 8
<span class=verse-first>8</span>David said to Ahimelech, “Is there no sword or spear here at your disposal? I don’t have my own sword or equipment in hand due to the urgency of the king’s instructions.”
## David Goes to Gath
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>The priest replied, “The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you struck down in the valley of Elah, is wrapped in a garment behind the ephod. If you wish, take it for yourself. Other than that one, there’s no sword here.” David said, “There’s nothing like it. Give it to me.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 10
<span class=verse-first>10</span>So on that day David arose and fled from Saul. He went to King Achish of Gath.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>The servants of Achish said to him, “Isn’t this David, the king of the land? Isn’t he the one that they sing about when they dance, saying,
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

><span class=poetry-quote-single>‘</span>Saul struck down his thousands,
><span class=poetry-quote-single>‘</span>But David his tens of thousands’?”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>David thought about what they said and was very afraid of King Achish of Gath.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>He altered his behavior in their presence. Since he was in their power, he pretended to be insane, making marks on the doors of the gate and letting his saliva run down his beard.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>Achish said to his servants, “Look at this madman! Why did you bring him to me?
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>“Do I have a shortage of fools so that you have brought me this man to display his insanity in front of me? Should this man enter my house?”
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam20|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam21notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam22|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>