---
aliases: ["1 Samuel 23", "1 Sam. 23"]
---
# 1 Samuel 23
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam22|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam23notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam24|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## David Delivers the City of Keilah
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>They told David, “The Philistines are fighting in Keilah and are looting the threshing floors.”
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>So David asked the Lᴏʀᴅ, “Should I go and strike down these Philistines?” The Lᴏʀᴅ said to David, “Go, strike down the Philistines and deliver Keilah.”
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>But David’s men said to him, “We are afraid while we are still here in Judah. What will it be like if we go to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?”
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>So David asked the Lᴏʀᴅ once again. But again the Lᴏʀᴅ replied, “Arise, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into your hand.”
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>So David and his men went to Keilah and fought the Philistines. He took away their cattle and thoroughly defeated them. David delivered the inhabitants of Keilah.
## David Eludes Saul Again
###### 6
<span class=verse-first>6</span>Now when Abiathar son of Ahimelech had fled to David at Keilah, he had brought with him an ephod.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>When Saul was told that David had come to Keilah, Saul said, “God has delivered him into my hand, for he has boxed himself into a corner by entering a city with two barred gates.”
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>So Saul mustered all his army to go down to Keilah and besiege David and his men.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>When David realized that Saul was planning to harm him, he told Abiathar the priest, “Bring the ephod.”
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>Then David said, “O Lᴏʀᴅ God of Israel, your servant has clearly heard that Saul is planning to come to Keilah to destroy the city because of me.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>“Will the leaders of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Will Saul come down as your servant has heard? O Lᴏʀᴅ God of Israel, please inform your servant.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

Then the Lᴏʀᴅ said, “He will come down.”
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>David asked, “Will the leaders of Keilah deliver me and my men into Saul’s hand?” The Lᴏʀᴅ said, “They will deliver you over.”
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>So David and his men, who numbered about 600, set out and left Keilah; they moved around from one place to another. When told that David had escaped from Keilah, Saul called a halt to his expedition.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>David stayed in the strongholds that were in the desert and in the hill country of the wilderness of Ziph. Saul looked for him all the time, but God did not deliver David into his hands.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 15
<span class=verse-first>15</span>David realized that Saul had come out to seek his life; at that time David was in Horesh in the wilderness of Ziph.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>Then Jonathan son of Saul left and went to David at Horesh. He encouraged him through God.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>He said to him, “Don’t be afraid! For the hand of my father Saul cannot find you. You will rule over Israel, and I will be your second in command. Even my father Saul realizes this.”
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>When the two of them had made a covenant before the Lᴏʀᴅ, David stayed at Horesh, but Jonathan went to his house.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 19
<span class=verse-first>19</span>Then the Ziphites went up to Saul at Gibeah and said, “Isn’t David hiding among us in the strongholds at Horesh on the hill of Hakilah, south of Jeshimon?
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>“Now at your own discretion, O king, come down. Delivering him into the king’s hand will be our responsibility.”
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>Saul replied, “May you be blessed by the Lᴏʀᴅ, for you have had compassion on me.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>“Go and make further arrangements. Determine precisely where he is and who has seen him there, for I am told that he is extremely cunning.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>“Locate precisely all the places where he hides and return to me with dependable information. Then I will go with you. If he is in the land, I will find him among all the thousands of Judah.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 24
<span class=verse-first>24</span>So they left and went to Ziph ahead of Saul. Now David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the rift valley to the south of Jeshimon.
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>Saul and his men went to look for him. But David was informed and went down to the rock and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. When Saul heard about it, he pursued David in the wilderness of Maon.
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>Saul went on one side of the mountain, while David and his men went on the other side of the mountain. David was hurrying to get away from Saul, but Saul and his men were surrounding David and his men to capture them.
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>But a messenger came to Saul saying, “Come quickly, for the Philistines have raided the land!”
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>So Saul stopped pursuing David and went to confront the Philistines. Therefore that place is called Sela Hammahlekoth.
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span> Then David went up from there and stayed in the strongholds of En Gedi.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam22|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam23notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam24|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>