---
aliases: ["1 Samuel 18", "1 Sam. 18"]
---
# 1 Samuel 18
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam17|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam18notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam19|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Saul Comes to Fear David
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>When David had finished talking with Saul, Jonathan and David became bound together in close friendship. Jonathan loved David as much as he did his own life.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>Saul retained David on that day and did not allow him to return to his father’s house.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>Jonathan made a covenant with David, for he loved him as much as he did his own life.
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>Jonathan took off the robe he was wearing and gave it to David, along with the rest of his gear including his sword, his bow, and even his belt.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>On every mission on which Saul sent him, David achieved success. So Saul appointed him over the men of war. This pleased not only all the army, but also Saul’s servants.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 6
<span class=verse-first>6</span>When the men arrived after David returned from striking down the Philistine, the women from all the cities of Israel came out singing and dancing to meet King Saul. They were happy as they played their tambourines and three-stringed instruments.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>The women who were playing the music sang,
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Saul has struck down his thousands,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>But David his tens of thousands!”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>This made Saul very angry. The statement displeased him and he thought, “They have attributed to David tens of thousands, but to me they have attributed only thousands. What does he lack, except the kingdom?”
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>So Saul was keeping an eye on David from that day onward.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 10
<span class=verse-first>10</span>The next day an evil spirit from God rushed upon Saul and he prophesied within his house. Now David was playing the lyre as usual. There was a spear in Saul’s hand,
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>and Saul threw the spear, thinking, “I’ll nail David to the wall!” But David escaped from him on two different occasions.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 12
<span class=verse-first>12</span>So Saul feared David, because the Lᴏʀᴅ was with David but had departed from Saul.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>Saul removed David from his presence and made him a commanding officer. David led the army out to battle and back.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>Now David achieved success in all he did, for the Lᴏʀᴅ was with him.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>When Saul saw how very successful he was, he was afraid of him.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>But all Israel and Judah loved David, for he was the one leading them out to battle and back.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 17
<span class=verse-first>17</span>Then Saul said to David, “Here’s my oldest daughter, Merab. I want to give her to you in marriage. Only be a brave warrior for me and fight the battles of the Lᴏʀᴅ.” For Saul thought, “There’s no need for me to raise my hand against him. Let it be the hand of the Philistines!”
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>David said to Saul, “Who am I? Who are my relatives or the clan of my father in Israel that I should become the king’s son-in-law?”
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>When the time came for Merab, Saul’s daughter, to be given to David, she instead was given in marriage to Adriel, who was from Meholah.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 20
<span class=verse-first>20</span>Now Michal, Saul’s daughter, loved David. When they told Saul about this, it pleased him.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>Saul said, “I will give her to him so that she may become a snare to him and so the hand of the Philistines may be against him.” So Saul said to David, “Today is the second time for you to become my son-in-law.”
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>Then Saul instructed his servants, “Tell David secretly, ‘The king is pleased with you, and all his servants like you. So now become the king’s son-in-law.’”
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>So Saul’s servants spoke these words privately to David. David replied, “Is becoming the king’s son-in-law something insignificant to you? I’m just a poor and lightly esteemed man!”
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>When Saul’s servants reported what David had said,
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>Saul replied, “Here is what you should say to David: ‘There is nothing that the king wants as a price for the bride except 100 Philistine foreskins, so that he can be avenged of his enemies.’” (Now Saul was thinking that he could kill David by the hand of the Philistines.)
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>So his servants told David these things and David agreed to become the king’s son-in-law. Now the specified time had not yet expired
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>when David, along with his men, went out and struck down 200 Philistine men. David brought their foreskins and presented all of them to the king so that he could become the king’s son-in-law. Saul then gave him his daughter Michal in marriage.
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>When Saul realized that the Lᴏʀᴅ was with David and that his daughter Michal loved David,
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span>Saul became even more afraid of him. Saul continued to be at odds with David from then on.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 30
<span class=verse-first>30</span>The leaders of the Philistines would march out, and as often as they did so, David achieved more success than all of Saul’s servants. His name was held in high esteem.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam17|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam18notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam19|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>