---
aliases: ["1 Samuel 26", "1 Sam. 26"]
---
# 1 Samuel 26
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam25|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam26notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam27|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## David Spares Saul’s Life Again
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>The Ziphites came to Saul at Gibeah and said, “Isn’t David hiding on the hill of Hakilah near Jeshimon?”
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>So Saul arose and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, accompanied by 3,000 select men of Israel, to look for David in the wilderness of Ziph.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>Saul camped by the road on the hill of Hakilah near Jeshimon, but David was staying in the wilderness. When he realized that Saul had come to the wilderness to find him,
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>David sent scouts and verified that Saul had indeed arrived.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>So David set out and went to the place where Saul was camped. David saw the place where Saul and Abner son of Ner, the general in command of his army, were sleeping. Now Saul was lying in the entrenchment, and the army was camped all around him.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 6
<span class=verse-first>6</span>David said to Ahimelech the Hittite and Abishai son of Zeruiah, Joab’s brother, “Who will go down with me to Saul in the camp?” Abishai replied, “I will go down with you.”
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>So David and Abishai approached the army at night and found Saul lying asleep in the entrenchment with his spear stuck in the ground by his head. Abner and the army were lying all around him.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>Abishai said to David, “Today God has delivered your enemy into your hands. Now let me drive the spear right through him into the ground with one swift jab! A second jab won’t be necessary!”
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>But David said to Abishai, “Don’t kill him! Who can extend his hand against the Lᴏʀᴅ’s chosen one and remain guiltless?”
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>David went on to say, “As the Lᴏʀᴅ lives, the Lᴏʀᴅ himself will strike him down. Either his day will come and he will die, or he will go down into battle and be swept away.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>“But may the Lᴏʀᴅ prevent me from extending my hand against the Lᴏʀᴅ’s chosen one! Now take the spear by Saul’s head and the jug of water, and let’s get out of here!”
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>So David took the spear and the jug of water by Saul’s head, and they got out of there. No one saw them or was aware of their presence or woke up. All of them were asleep, for the Lᴏʀᴅ had caused a deep sleep to fall on them.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 13
<span class=verse-first>13</span>Then David crossed to the other side and stood on the top of the hill some distance away; there was a considerable distance between them.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>David called to the army and to Abner son of Ner, “Won’t you answer, Abner?” Abner replied, “Who are you, that you have called to the king?”
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>David said to Abner, “Aren’t you a man? After all, who is like you in Israel? Why then haven’t you protected your lord the king? One of the soldiers came to kill your lord the king.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>“This failure on your part isn’t good! As surely as the Lᴏʀᴅ lives, you people who have not protected your lord, the Lᴏʀᴅ’s chosen one, are as good as dead! Now look where the king’s spear and the jug of water that was by his head are!”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 17
<span class=verse-first>17</span>When Saul recognized David’s voice, he said, “Is that your voice, my son David?” David replied, “Yes, it’s my voice, my lord the king.”
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>He went on to say, “Why is my lord chasing his servant? What have I done? What wrong have I done?
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>“So let my lord the king now listen to the words of his servant. If the Lᴏʀᴅ has incited you against me, may he take delight in an offering. But if men have instigated this, may they be cursed before the Lᴏʀᴅ! For they have driven me away this day from being united with the Lᴏʀᴅ’s inheritance, saying, ‘Go on, serve other gods!’
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>“Now don’t let my blood fall to the ground away from the Lᴏʀᴅ’s presence, for the king of Israel has gone out to look for a flea the way one looks for a partridge in the hill country.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 21
<span class=verse-first>21</span>Saul replied, “I have sinned. Come back, my son David. I won’t harm you anymore, for you treated my life with value this day. I have behaved foolishly and have made a very terrible mistake!”
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>David replied, “Here is the king’s spear! Let one of your servants cross over and get it.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>“The Lᴏʀᴅ rewards each man for his integrity and loyalty. Even though today the Lᴏʀᴅ delivered you into my hand, I was not willing to extend my hand against the Lᴏʀᴅ’s chosen one.
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>“In the same way that I valued your life this day, may the Lᴏʀᴅ value my life and deliver me from all danger.”
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>Saul replied to David, “May you be rewarded, my son David! You will without question be successful!” So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam25|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam26notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam27|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>