---
aliases: ["1 Samuel 16", "1 Sam. 16"]
---
# 1 Samuel 16
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam15|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam16notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam17|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Samuel Anoints David as King
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Samuel, “How long do you intend to mourn for Saul? I have rejected him as king over Israel. Fill your horn with olive oil and go. I am sending you to Jesse in Bethlehem, for I have selected a king for myself from among his sons.”
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>Samuel replied, “How can I go? Saul will hear about it and kill me!” But the Lᴏʀᴅ said, “Take a heifer with you and say, ‘I have come to sacrifice to the Lord.’
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>“Then invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you should do. You will anoint for me the one I point out to you.”
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>Samuel did what the Lᴏʀᴅ told him. When he arrived in Bethlehem, the elders of the city were afraid to meet him. They said, “Do you come in peace?”
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>He replied, “Yes, in peace. I have come to sacrifice to the Lᴏʀᴅ. Consecrate yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice.” So he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 6
<span class=verse-first>6</span>When they arrived, Samuel noticed Eliab and said to himself, “Surely, here before the Lᴏʀᴅ stands his chosen king.”
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>But the Lᴏʀᴅ said to Samuel, “Don’t be impressed by his appearance or his height, for I have rejected him. God does not view things the way people do. People look on the outward appearance, but the Lᴏʀᴅ looks at the heart.”
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>Then Jesse called Abinadab and presented him to Samuel. But Samuel said, “The Lᴏʀᴅ has not chosen this one either.”
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>Then Jesse presented Shammah. But Samuel said, “The Lᴏʀᴅ has not chosen this one either.”
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>Jesse presented seven of his sons to Samuel. But Samuel said to Jesse, “The Lᴏʀᴅ has not chosen any of these.”
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>Then Samuel asked Jesse, “Is that all the young men?” Jesse replied, “There is still the youngest one, but he’s taking care of the flock.” Samuel said to Jesse, “Send and get him, for we cannot turn our attention to other things until he comes here.”
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>So Jesse had him brought in. Now he was ruddy, with attractive eyes and a handsome appearance. The Lᴏʀᴅ said, “Go and anoint him. This is the one.”
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>So Samuel took the horn full of olive oil and anointed him in the presence of his brothers. The Spirit of the Lᴏʀᴅ rushed upon David from that day onward. Then Samuel got up and went to Ramah.
## David Appears before Saul
###### 14
<span class=verse-first>14</span>Now the Spirit of the Lᴏʀᴅ had turned away from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lᴏʀᴅ tormented him.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>Then Saul’s servants said to him, “Look, an evil spirit from God is tormenting you.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>“Let our lord instruct his servants who are here before you to look for a man who knows how to play the lyre. Then whenever the evil spirit from God comes upon you, he can play the lyre and you will feel better.”
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>So Saul said to his servants, “Find me a man who plays well and bring him to me.”
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>One of his attendants replied, “I have seen a son of Jesse in Bethlehem who knows how to play the lyre. He is a brave warrior and is articulate and handsome, for the Lᴏʀᴅ is with him.”
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>So Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, “Send me your son David, who is out with the sheep.”
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>So Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread, a container of wine, and a young goat and sent them to Saul with his son David.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>David came to Saul and stood before him. Saul liked him a great deal, and he became his armor-bearer.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>Then Saul sent word to Jesse saying, “Let David be my servant, for I am very pleased with him.”
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>So whenever the spirit from God would come upon Saul, David would take his lyre and play it. This would bring relief to Saul and make him feel better. Then the evil spirit would leave him alone.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam15|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam16notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam17|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>