---
aliases: ["1 Samuel 12", "1 Sam. 12"]
---
# 1 Samuel 12
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam11|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam12notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam13|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>Samuel said to all Israel, “I have done everything you requested. I have given you a king.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>“Now look! This king walks before you. As for me, I am old and gray, and my sons are here with you. I have walked before you from the time of my youth till the present day.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>“Here I am. Bring a charge against me before the Lᴏʀᴅ and before his chosen king. Whose ox have I taken? Whose donkey have I taken? Whom have I wronged? Whom have I oppressed? From whose hand have I taken a bribe so that I would overlook something? Tell me, and I will return it to you!”
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>They replied, “You have not wronged us or oppressed us. You have not taken anything from the hand of anyone.”
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>He said to them, “The Lᴏʀᴅ is witness against you, and his chosen king is witness this day, that you have not found any reason to accuse me.” They said, “He is witness!”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 6
<span class=verse-first>6</span>Samuel said to the people, “The Lᴏʀᴅ is the one who chose Moses and Aaron and who brought your ancestors up from the land of Egypt.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>“Now take your positions, so I may confront you before the Lᴏʀᴅ regarding all the Lᴏʀᴅ’s just actions toward you and your ancestors.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>“When Jacob entered Egypt, your ancestors cried out to the Lᴏʀᴅ. The Lᴏʀᴅ sent Moses and Aaron, and they led your ancestors out of Egypt and settled them in this place.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>“But they forgot the Lᴏʀᴅ their God, so he gave them into the hand of Sisera, the general in command of Hazor’s army, and into the hands of the Philistines and the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>“Then they cried out to the Lᴏʀᴅ and admitted, ‘We have sinned, for we have forsaken the Lᴏʀᴅ and have served the Baals and the images of Ashtoreth. Now deliver us from the hands of our enemies so that we may serve you.’
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>“So the Lᴏʀᴅ sent Jerub Baal, Barak, Jephthah, and Samuel, and he delivered you from the hands of the enemies all around you, and you were able to live securely.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>“When you saw that King Nahash of the Ammonites was advancing against you, you said to me, ‘No! A king will rule over us’—even though the Lᴏʀᴅ your God is your king.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>“Now look! Here is the king you have chosen—the one that you asked for! Look, the Lᴏʀᴅ has given you a king.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>“If you fear the Lᴏʀᴅ, serving him and obeying him and not rebelling against what he says, and if both you and the king who rules over you follow the Lᴏʀᴅ your God, all will be well.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>“But if you don’t obey the Lᴏʀᴅ and rebel against what the Lᴏʀᴅ says, the hand of the Lᴏʀᴅ will be against both you and your king.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>“So now, take your positions and watch this great thing that the Lᴏʀᴅ is about to do in your sight.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>“Is this not the time of the wheat harvest? I will call on the Lᴏʀᴅ so that he makes it thunder and rain. Realize and see what a great sin you have committed before the Lᴏʀᴅ by asking for a king for yourselves.”
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>So Samuel called to the Lᴏʀᴅ, and the Lᴏʀᴅ made it thunder and rain that day. All the people were very afraid of both the Lᴏʀᴅ and Samuel.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 19
<span class=verse-first>19</span>All the people said to Samuel, “Pray to the Lᴏʀᴅ your God on behalf of us—your servants—so we won’t die, for we have added to all our sins by asking for a king.”
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>Then Samuel said to the people, “Don’t be afraid. You have indeed sinned. However, don’t turn aside from the Lᴏʀᴅ. Serve the Lᴏʀᴅ with all your heart.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>“You should not turn aside after empty things that can’t profit and can’t deliver, since they are empty.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>“The Lᴏʀᴅ will not abandon his people because he wants to uphold his great reputation. The Lᴏʀᴅ was pleased to make you his own people.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>“As far as I am concerned, far be it from me to sin against the Lᴏʀᴅ by ceasing to pray for you! I will instruct you in the way that is good and upright.
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>“However, fear the Lᴏʀᴅ and serve him faithfully with all your heart. Just look at the great things he has done for you!
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>“But if you continue to do evil, both you and your king will be swept away.”
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam11|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam12notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam13|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>