---
aliases: ["1 Samuel 29", "1 Sam. 29"]
---
# 1 Samuel 29
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam28|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam29notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam30|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## David Is Rejected by the Philistine Leaders
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>The Philistines assembled all their troops at Aphek, while Israel camped at the spring that is in Jezreel.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>When the leaders of the Philistines were passing in review at the head of their units of hundreds and thousands, David and his men were passing in review in the rear with Achish.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>The leaders of the Philistines asked, “What about these Hebrews?” Achish said to the leaders of the Philistines, “Isn’t this David, the servant of King Saul of Israel, who has been with me for quite some time? I have found no fault with him from the day of his defection until the present time!”
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>But the leaders of the Philistines became angry with him and said to him, “Send the man back! Let him return to the place that you assigned him! Don’t let him go down with us into the battle, for he might become our adversary in the battle. What better way to please his lord than with the heads of these men?
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>“Isn’t this David, of whom they sang as they danced,
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

><span class=poetry-quote-single>‘</span>Saul has struck down his thousands,
><span class=poetry-quote-single>‘</span>But David his tens of thousands’?”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 6
<span class=verse-first>6</span>So Achish summoned David and said to him, “As surely as the Lᴏʀᴅ lives, you are an honest man, and I am glad to have you serving with me in the army. I have found no fault with you from the day that you first came to me until the present time. But in the opinion of the leaders, you are not reliable.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>“So turn and leave in peace. You must not do anything that the leaders of the Philistines consider improper!”
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>But David said to Achish, “What have I done? What have you found in your servant from the day that I first came into your presence until the present time, that I shouldn’t go and fight the enemies of my lord the king?”
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>Achish replied to David, “I am convinced that you are as reliable as the angel of God! However, the leaders of the Philistines have said, ‘He must not go up with us in the battle.’
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>“So get up early in the morning along with the servants of your lord who have come with you. When you get up early in the morning, as soon as it is light enough to see, leave.”
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>So David and his men got up early in the morning to return to the land of the Philistines, but the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam28|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam29notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam30|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>