---
aliases: ["1 Samuel 24", "1 Sam. 24"]
---
# 1 Samuel 24
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam23|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam24notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam25|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## David Spares Saul’s Life
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span> When Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, he was told, “Look, David is in the desert of En Gedi.”
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>So Saul took 3,000 select men from all Israel and went to find David and his men in the region of the rocks of the mountain goats.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>He came to the sheepfolds by the road, where there was a cave. Saul went into it to relieve himself.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

Now David and his men were sitting in the recesses of the cave.
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>David’s men said to him, “This is the day about which the Lᴏʀᴅ said to you, ‘I will give your enemy into your hand, and you can do to him whatever seems appropriate to you.’” So David got up and quietly cut off an edge of Saul’s robe.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>Afterward David’s conscience bothered him because he had cut off an edge of Saul’s robe.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>He said to his men, “May the Lᴏʀᴅ keep me far away from doing such a thing to my lord, who is the Lᴏʀᴅ’s chosen one, by extending my hand against him. After all, he is the Lᴏʀᴅ’s chosen one.”
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>David restrained his men with these words and did not allow them to rise up against Saul. Then Saul left the cave and started down the road.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 8
<span class=verse-first>8</span>Afterward David got up and went out of the cave. He called out to Saul, “My lord, O king!” When Saul looked behind him, David kneeled down and bowed with his face to the ground.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>David said to Saul, “Why do you pay attention when men say, ‘David is seeking to do you harm’?
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>“Today your own eyes see how the Lᴏʀᴅ delivered you—this very day—into my hands in the cave. Some told me to kill you, but I had pity on you and said, ‘I will not extend my hand against my lord, for he is the Lᴏʀᴅ’s chosen one.’
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>“Look, my father, and see the edge of your robe in my hand! When I cut off the edge of your robe, I didn’t kill you. So realize and understand that I am not planning evil or rebellion. Even though I have not sinned against you, you are waiting in ambush to take my life.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>“May the Lᴏʀᴅ judge between the two of us, and may the Lᴏʀᴅ vindicate me over you, but my hand will not be against you.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>“It’s like the old proverb says: ‘From evil people evil proceeds.’ But my hand will not be against you.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>“Who has the king of Israel come out after? Who is it that you are pursuing? A dead dog? A single flea?
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>“May the Lᴏʀᴅ be our judge and arbiter. May he see and arbitrate my case and deliver me from your hands.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 16
<span class=verse-first>16</span>When David finished speaking these words to Saul, Saul said, “Is that your voice, my son David?” Then Saul wept loudly.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>He said to David, “You are more innocent than I, for you have treated me well, even though I have tried to harm you.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>“You have explained today how you have treated me well. The Lᴏʀᴅ delivered me into your hand, but you did not kill me.
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>“Now if a man finds his enemy, does he send him on his way in good shape? May the Lᴏʀᴅ repay you with good this day for what you have done to me.
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>“Now look, I realize that you will in fact be king and that the kingdom of Israel will be established in your hands.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>“So now swear to me in the Lᴏʀᴅ’s name that you will not kill my descendants after me or destroy my name from the house of my father.”
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>David promised Saul this on oath. Then Saul went to his house, and David and his men went up to the stronghold.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[1sam23|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam24notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[1sam25|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>