---
aliases: ["2 Corinthians 12", "2 Cor. 12"]
---
# 2 Corinthians 12
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[2cor11|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2cor12notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2cor13|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Paul’s Thorn in the Flesh
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>It is necessary to go on boasting. Though it is not profitable, I will go on to visions and revelations from the Lord.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago (whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, God knows) was caught up to the third heaven.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>And I know that this man (whether in the body or apart from the body I do not know, God knows)
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>was caught up into paradise and heard things too sacred to be put into words, things that a person is not permitted to speak.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>On behalf of such an individual I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except about my weaknesses.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>For even if I wish to boast, I will not be a fool, for I would be telling the truth, but I refrain from this so that no one may regard me beyond what he sees in me or what he hears from me,
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>even because of the extraordinary character of the revelations. Therefore, so that I would not become arrogant, a thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan to trouble me—so that I would not become arrogant.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>I asked the Lord three times about this, that it would depart from me.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>But he said to me, “My grace is enough for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” So then, I will boast most gladly about my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may reside in me.
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>Therefore I am content with weaknesses, with insults, with troubles, with persecutions and difficulties for the sake of Christ, for whenever I am weak, then I am strong.
## The Signs of an Apostle
###### 11
<span class=verse-first>11</span>I have become a fool. You yourselves forced me to do it, for I should have been commended by you. For I lack nothing in comparison to those “super-apostles,” even though I am nothing.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>Indeed, the signs of an apostle were performed among you with great perseverance by signs and wonders and powerful deeds.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>For how were you treated worse than the other churches, except that I myself was not a burden to you? Forgive me this injustice!
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 14
<span class=verse-first>14</span>Look, for the third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be a burden to you, because I do not want your possessions, but you. For children should not have to save up for their parents, but parents for their children.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>Now I will most gladly spend and be spent for your lives! If I love you more, am I to be loved less?
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>But be that as it may, I have not burdened you. Yet because I was a crafty person, I took you in by deceit!
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>I have not taken advantage of you through anyone I have sent to you, have I?
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>I urged Titus to visit you and I sent our brother along with him. Titus did not take advantage of you, did he? Did we not conduct ourselves in the same spirit? Did we not behave in the same way?
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 19
<span class=verse-first>19</span>Have you been thinking all this time that we have been defending ourselves to you? We are speaking in Christ before God, and everything we do, dear friends, is to build you up.
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>For I am afraid that somehow when I come I will not find you what I wish, and you will find me not what you wish. I am afraid that somehow there may be quarreling, jealousy, intense anger, selfish ambition, slander, gossip, arrogance, and disorder.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>I am afraid that when I come again, my God may humiliate me before you, and I will grieve for many of those who previously sinned and have not repented of the impurity, sexual immorality, and licentiousness that they have practiced.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[2cor11|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2cor12notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2cor13|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>