---
aliases: ["2 Samuel 23", "2 Sam. 23"]
---
# 2 Samuel 23
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[2sam22|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2sam23notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2sam24|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## David’s Final Words
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>These are the final words of David:
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>The oracle of David son of Jesse,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>The oracle of the man raised up as
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>The ruler chosen by the God of Jacob,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Israel’s beloved singer of songs:
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ’s Spirit spoke through me;
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>His word was on my tongue.
###### 3
><span class=verse-body-poetry>3</span><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>The God of Israel spoke,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>The Protector of Israel spoke to me.
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>The one who rules fairly among men,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>The one who rules in the fear of God,
###### 4
><span class=verse-body-poetry>4</span><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Is like the light of morning when the sun comes up,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>A morning in which there are no clouds.
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>He is like the brightness after rain
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>That produces grass from the earth.
###### 5
><span class=verse-body-poetry>5</span><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>My dynasty is approved by God,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>For he has made a perpetual covenant with me,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Arranged in all its particulars and secured.
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>He always delivers me,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>And brings all I desire to fruition.
###### 6
><span class=verse-body-poetry>6</span><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>But evil people are like thorns—
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>All of them are tossed away,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>For they cannot be held in the hand.
###### 7
><span class=verse-body-poetry>7</span><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>The one who touches them
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Must use an iron instrument
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Or the wooden shaft of a spear.
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>They are completely burned up right where they lie!”
## David’s Warriors
###### 8
<span class=verse-first>8</span>These are the names of David’s warriors:
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

Josheb Basshebeth, a Tahkemonite, was head of the officers. He killed 800 men with his spear in one battle.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>Next in command was Eleazar son of Dodo, the son of Ahohi. He was one of the three warriors who were with David when they defied the Philistines who were assembled there for battle. When the men of Israel retreated,
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>he stood his ground and fought the Philistines until his hand grew so tired that it seemed stuck to his sword. The Lᴏʀᴅ gave a great victory on that day. When the army returned to him, the only thing left to do was to plunder the corpses.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 11
<span class=verse-first>11</span>Next in command was Shammah son of Agee the Hararite. When the Philistines assembled at Lehi, where there happened to be an area of a field that was full of lentils, the army retreated before the Philistines.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>But he made a stand in the middle of that area. He defended it and defeated the Philistines; the Lᴏʀᴅ gave them a great victory.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 13
<span class=verse-first>13</span>At the time of the harvest three of the thirty leaders went down to David at the cave of Adullam. A band of Philistines was camped in the valley of Rephaim.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>David was in the stronghold at the time, while a Philistine garrison was in Bethlehem.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>David was thirsty and said, “How I wish someone would give me some water to drink from the cistern in Bethlehem near the gate!”
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>So the three elite warriors broke through the Philistine forces and drew some water from the cistern in Bethlehem near the gate. They carried it back to David, but he refused to drink it. He poured it out as a drink offering to the Lᴏʀᴅ
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>and said, “O Lᴏʀᴅ, I will not do this! It is equivalent to the blood of the men who risked their lives by going.” So he refused to drink it. Such were the exploits of the three elite warriors.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 18
<span class=verse-first>18</span>Abishai son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, was head of the three. He killed 300 men with his spear and gained fame among the three.
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>From the three he was given honor and he became their officer, even though he was not one of the three.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 20
<span class=verse-first>20</span>Benaiah son of Jehoiada was a brave warrior from Kabzeel who performed great exploits. He struck down the two sons of Ariel of Moab. He also went down and killed a lion in a cistern on a snowy day.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>He also killed an impressive-looking Egyptian. The Egyptian wielded a spear, while Benaiah attacked him with a club. He grabbed the spear out of the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>Such were the exploits of Benaiah son of Jehoiada, who gained fame among the three elite warriors.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>He received honor from the thirty warriors, though he was not one of the three elite warriors. David put him in charge of his bodyguard.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 24
<span class=verse-first>24</span>Included with the thirty were the following: Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan son of Dodo from Bethlehem,
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite,
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>Helez the Paltite, Ira son of Ikkesh from Tekoa,
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>Abiezer the Anathothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite,
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite,
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span>Heled son of Baanah the Netophathite, Ittai son of Ribai from Gibeah in Benjamin,
###### 30
<span class=verse-body>30</span>Benaiah the Pirathonite, Hiddai from the wadis of Gaash,
###### 31
<span class=verse-body>31</span>Abi-Albon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite,
###### 32
<span class=verse-body>32</span>Eliahba the Shaalbonite, the sons of Jashen, Jonathan
###### 33
<span class=verse-body>33</span>son of Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam son of Sharar the Hararite,
###### 34
<span class=verse-body>34</span>Eliphelet son of Ahasbai the Maacathite, Eliam son of Ahithophel the Gilonite,
###### 35
<span class=verse-body>35</span>Hezrai the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite,
###### 36
<span class=verse-body>36</span>Igal son of Nathan from Zobah, Bani the Gadite,
###### 37
<span class=verse-body>37</span>Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite (the armor-bearer of Joab son of Zeruiah),
###### 38
<span class=verse-body>38</span>Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
###### 39
<span class=verse-body>39</span>and Uriah the Hittite. Altogether there were thirty-seven.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[2sam22|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2sam23notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[2sam24|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>