---
aliases: ["Exodus 12", "Ex. 12"]
---
# Exodus 12
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex11|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex12notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex13|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## The Institution of the Passover
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt,
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>“This month is to be your beginning of months; it will be your first month of the year.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>“Tell the whole community of Israel, ‘On the tenth day of this month they each must take a lamb for themselves according to their families—a lamb for each household.
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>‘If any household is too small for a lamb, the man and his next-door neighbor are to take a lamb according to the number of people—you will make your count for the lamb according to how much each one can eat.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>‘Your lamb must be perfect, a male, one year old; you may take it from the sheep or from the goats.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>‘You must care for it until the fourteenth day of this month, and then the whole community of Israel will kill it around sundown.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>‘They will take some of the blood and put it on the two side posts and top of the doorframe of the houses where they will eat it.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>‘They will eat the meat the same night; they will eat it roasted over the fire with bread made without yeast and with bitter herbs.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>‘Do not eat it raw or boiled in water, but roast it over the fire with its head, its legs, and its entrails.
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>‘You must leave nothing until morning, but you must burn with fire whatever remains of it until morning.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>‘This is how you are to eat it—dressed to travel, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand. You are to eat it in haste. It is the Lᴏʀᴅ’s Passover.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>‘I will pass through the land of Egypt in the same night, and I will attack all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both of humans and of animals, and on all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment. I am the Lᴏʀᴅ.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>‘The blood will be a sign for you on the houses where you are, so that when I see the blood I will pass over you, and this plague will not fall on you to destroy you when I attack the land of Egypt.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 14
<span class=verse-first>14</span>‘This day will become a memorial for you, and you will celebrate it as a festival to the Lᴏʀᴅ—you will celebrate it perpetually as a lasting ordinance.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>‘For seven days you must eat bread made without yeast. Surely on the first day you must put away yeast from your houses because anyone who eats bread made with yeast from the first day to the seventh day will be cut off from Israel.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>‘On the first day there will be a holy convocation, and on the seventh day there will be a holy convocation for you. You must do no work of any kind on them, only what every person will eat—that alone may be prepared for you.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>‘So you will keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread, because on this very day I brought your regiments out from the land of Egypt, and so you must keep this day perpetually as a lasting ordinance.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>‘In the first month, from the fourteenth day of the month, in the evening, you will eat bread made without yeast until the twenty-first day of the month in the evening.
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>‘For seven days yeast must not be found in your houses, for whoever eats what is made with yeast—that person will be cut off from the community of Israel, whether a resident foreigner or one born in the land.
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>‘You will not eat anything made with yeast; in all the places where you live you must eat bread made without yeast.’”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 21
<span class=verse-first>21</span>Then Moses summoned all the elders of Israel, and told them, “Go and select for yourselves a lamb or young goat for your families, and kill the Passover animals.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>“Take a branch of hyssop, dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and apply to the top of the doorframe and the two side posts some of the blood that is in the basin. Not one of you is to go out the door of his house until morning.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>“For the Lᴏʀᴅ will pass through to strike Egypt, and when he sees the blood on the top of the doorframe and the two side posts, then the Lᴏʀᴅ will pass over the door, and he will not permit the destroyer to enter your houses to strike you.
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>“You must observe this event as an ordinance for you and for your children forever.
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>“When you enter the land that the Lᴏʀᴅ will give to you, just as he said, you must observe this ceremony.
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>“When your children ask you, ‘What does this ceremony mean to you?’—
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>“then you will say, ‘It is the sacrifice of the Lᴏʀᴅ’s Passover, when he passed over the houses of the Israelites in Egypt, when he struck Egypt and delivered our households.’” The people bowed down low to the ground,
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 28
<span class=verse-first>28</span>and the Israelites went away and did exactly as the Lᴏʀᴅ had commanded Moses and Aaron.
## The Deliverance from Egypt
###### 29
<span class=verse-first>29</span>It happened at midnight—the Lᴏʀᴅ attacked all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the prison, and all the firstborn of the cattle.
###### 30
<span class=verse-body>30</span>Pharaoh got up in the night, along with all his servants and all Egypt, and there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was no house in which there was not someone dead.
###### 31
<span class=verse-body>31</span>Pharaoh summoned Moses and Aaron in the night and said, “Get up, get out from among my people, both you and the Israelites! Go, serve the Lᴏʀᴅ as you have requested!
###### 32
<span class=verse-body>32</span>“Also, take your flocks and your herds, just as you have requested, and leave. But bless me also.”
###### 33
<span class=verse-body>33</span>The Egyptians were urging the people on, in order to send them out of the land quickly, for they were saying, “We are all dead!”
###### 34
<span class=verse-body>34</span>So the people took their dough before the yeast was added, with their kneading troughs bound up in their clothing on their shoulders.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 35
<span class=verse-first>35</span>Now the Israelites had done as Moses told them—they had requested from the Egyptians silver and gold items and clothing.
###### 36
<span class=verse-body>36</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and they gave them whatever they wanted, and so they plundered Egypt.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 37
<span class=verse-first>37</span>The Israelites journeyed from Rameses to Sukkoth. There were about 600,000 men on foot, plus their dependents.
###### 38
<span class=verse-body>38</span>A mixed multitude also went up with them, and flocks and herds—a very large number of cattle.
###### 39
<span class=verse-body>39</span>They baked cakes of bread without yeast using the dough they had brought from Egypt, for it was made without yeast. Because they were thrust out of Egypt and were not able to delay, they could not prepare food for themselves either.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 40
<span class=verse-first>40</span>Now the length of time the Israelites lived in Egypt was 430 years.
###### 41
<span class=verse-body>41</span>At the end of the 430 years, on the very day, all the regiments of the Lᴏʀᴅ went out of the land of Egypt.
###### 42
<span class=verse-body>42</span>It was a night of vigil for the Lᴏʀᴅ to bring them out from the land of Egypt, and so on this night all Israel is to keep the vigil to the Lᴏʀᴅ for generations to come.
## Participation in the Passover
###### 43
<span class=verse-first>43</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses and Aaron, “This is the ordinance of the Passover. No foreigner may share in eating it.
###### 44
<span class=verse-body>44</span>“But everyone’s servant who is bought for money, after you have circumcised him, may eat it.
###### 45
<span class=verse-body>45</span>“A foreigner and a hired worker must not eat it.
###### 46
<span class=verse-body>46</span>“It must be eaten in one house; you must not bring any of the meat outside the house, and you must not break a bone of it.
###### 47
<span class=verse-body>47</span>“The whole community of Israel must observe it.
###### 48
<span class=verse-body>48</span>“When a resident foreigner lives with you and wants to observe the Passover to the Lᴏʀᴅ, all his males must be circumcised, and then he may approach and observe it, and he will be like one who is born in the land—but no uncircumcised person may eat of it.
###### 49
<span class=verse-body>49</span>“The same law will apply to the person who is native-born and to the resident foreigner who lives among you.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 50
<span class=verse-first>50</span>So all the Israelites did exactly as the Lᴏʀᴅ commanded Moses and Aaron.
###### 51
<span class=verse-body>51</span>And on this very day the Lᴏʀᴅ brought the Israelites out of the land of Egypt by their regiments.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex11|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex12notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex13|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>