---
aliases: ["Exodus 13", "Ex. 13"]
---
# Exodus 13
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex12|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex13notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex14|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## The Law of the Firstborn
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ spoke to Moses,
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>“Set apart to me every firstborn male—the first offspring of every womb among the Israelites, whether human or animal; it is mine.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 3
<span class=verse-first>3</span>Moses said to the people, “Remember this day on which you came out from Egypt, from the place where you were enslaved, for the Lᴏʀᴅ brought you out of there with a mighty hand—and no bread made with yeast may be eaten.
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>“On this day, in the month of Abib, you are going out.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>“When the Lᴏʀᴅ brings you to the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Hivites, and Jebusites, which he swore to your fathers to give you, a land flowing with milk and honey, then you will keep this ceremony in this month.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>“For seven days you must eat bread made without yeast, and on the seventh day there is to be a festival to the Lᴏʀᴅ.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>“Bread made without yeast must be eaten for seven days; no bread made with yeast shall be seen among you, and you must have no yeast among you within any of your borders.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>“You are to tell your son on that day, ‘It is because of what the Lᴏʀᴅ did for me when I came out of Egypt.’
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>“It will be a sign for you on your hand and a memorial on your forehead, so that the law of the Lᴏʀᴅ may be in your mouth, for with a mighty hand the Lᴏʀᴅ brought you out of Egypt.
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>“So you must keep this ordinance at its appointed time from year to year.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 11
<span class=verse-first>11</span>“When the Lᴏʀᴅ brings you into the land of the Canaanites, as he swore to you and to your fathers, and gives it to you,
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>“then you must give over to the Lᴏʀᴅ the first offspring of every womb. Every firstling of a beast that you have—the males will be the Lᴏʀᴅ’s.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>“Every firstling of a donkey you must redeem with a lamb, and if you do not redeem it, then you must break its neck. Every firstborn of your sons you must redeem.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>“In the future, when your son asks you ‘What is this?’ you are to tell him, ‘With a mighty hand the Lᴏʀᴅ brought us out from Egypt, from the land of slavery.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>“When Pharaoh stubbornly refused to release us, the Lᴏʀᴅ killed all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of people to the firstborn of animals. That is why I am sacrificing to the Lᴏʀᴅ the first male offspring of every womb, but all my firstborn sons I redeem.’
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>“It will be for a sign on your hand and for frontlets on your forehead, for with a mighty hand the Lᴏʀᴅ brought us out of Egypt.”
## The Leading of God
###### 17
<span class=verse-first>17</span>When Pharaoh released the people, God did not lead them by the way to the land of the Philistines, although that was nearby, for God said, “Lest the people change their minds and return to Egypt when they experience war.”
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>So God brought the people around by the way of the wilderness to the Red Sea, and the Israelites went up from the land of Egypt prepared for battle.
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for Joseph had made the Israelites solemnly swear, “God will surely attend to you, and you will carry my bones up from this place with you.”
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>They journeyed from Sukkoth and camped in Etham, on the edge of the desert.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>Now the Lᴏʀᴅ was going before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them in the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, so that they could travel day or night.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>He did not remove the pillar of cloud by day nor the pillar of fire by night from before the people.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex12|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex13notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex14|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>