---
aliases: ["Exodus 16", "Ex. 16"]
---
# Exodus 16
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex15|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex16notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex17|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## The Provision of Manna
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>When they journeyed from Elim, the entire company of Israelites came to the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their exodus from the land of Egypt.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>The entire company of Israelites murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>The Israelites said to them, “If only we had died by the hand of the Lᴏʀᴅ in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the pots of meat, when we ate bread to the full, for you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger!”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 4
<span class=verse-first>4</span>Then the Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses, “I am going to rain bread from heaven for you, and the people will go out and gather the amount for each day, so that I may test them. Will they walk in my law or not?
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>“On the sixth day they will prepare what they bring in, and it will be twice as much as they gather every other day.”
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>Moses and Aaron said to all the Israelites, “In the evening you will know that the Lᴏʀᴅ has brought you out of the land of Egypt,
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>“and in the morning you will see the glory of the Lᴏʀᴅ, because he has heard your murmurings against the Lᴏʀᴅ. As for us, what are we, that you should murmur against us?”
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>Moses said, “You will know this when the Lᴏʀᴅ gives you meat to eat in the evening and bread in the morning to satisfy you, because the Lᴏʀᴅ has heard your murmurings that you are murmuring against him. As for us, what are we? Your murmurings are not against us, but against the Lᴏʀᴅ.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 9
<span class=verse-first>9</span>Then Moses said to Aaron, “Tell the whole community of the Israelites, ‘Come before the Lᴏʀᴅ, because he has heard your murmurings.’”
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>As Aaron spoke to the whole community of the Israelites and they looked toward the wilderness, there the glory of the Lᴏʀᴅ appeared in the cloud,
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>and the Lᴏʀᴅ spoke to Moses,
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>“I have heard the murmurings of the Israelites. Tell them, ‘During the evening you will eat meat, and in the morning you will be satisfied with bread, so that you may know that I am the Lᴏʀᴅ your God.’”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 13
<span class=verse-first>13</span>In the evening the quail came up and covered the camp, and in the morning a layer of dew was all around the camp.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>When the layer of dew had evaporated, there on the surface of the wilderness was a thin flaky substance, thin like frost on the earth.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>When the Israelites saw it, they said to one another, “What is it?” because they did not know what it was. Moses said to them, “It is the bread that the Lᴏʀᴅ has given you for food.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>“This is what the Lᴏʀᴅ has commanded: ‘Each person is to gather from it what he can eat, an omer per person according to the number of your people; each one will pick it up for whoever lives in his tent.’”
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>The Israelites did so, and they gathered—some more, some less.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>When they measured with an omer, the one who gathered much had nothing left over, and the one who gathered little lacked nothing; each one had gathered what he could eat.
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>Moses said to them, “No one is to keep any of it until morning.”
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>But they did not listen to Moses; some kept part of it until morning, and it was full of worms and began to stink, and Moses was angry with them.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>So they gathered it each morning, each person according to what he could eat, and when the sun got hot, it would melt.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 22
<span class=verse-first>22</span>And on the sixth day they gathered twice as much food, two omers per person; and all the leaders of the community came and told Moses.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>He said to them, “This is what the Lᴏʀᴅ has said: ‘Tomorrow is a time of cessation from work, a holy Sabbath to the Lord. Whatever you want to bake, bake today; whatever you want to boil, boil today; whatever is left put aside for yourselves to be kept until morning.’”
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>So they put it aside until the morning, just as Moses had commanded, and it did not stink, nor were there any worms in it.
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>Moses said, “Eat it today, for today is a Sabbath to the Lᴏʀᴅ; today you will not find it in the area.
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>“Six days you will gather it, but on the seventh day, the Sabbath, there will not be any.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 27
<span class=verse-first>27</span>On the seventh day some of the people went out to gather it, but they found nothing.
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>So the Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses, “How long do you refuse to obey my commandments and my instructions?
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span>“See, because the Lᴏʀᴅ has given you the Sabbath, that is why he is giving you food for two days on the sixth day. Each of you stay where you are; let no one go out of his place on the seventh day.”
###### 30
<span class=verse-body>30</span>So the people rested on the seventh day.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 31
<span class=verse-first>31</span>The house of Israel called its name “manna.” It was like coriander seed and was white, and it tasted like wafers with honey.
###### 32
<span class=verse-body>32</span>Moses said, “This is what the Lᴏʀᴅ has commanded: ‘Fill an omer with it to be kept for generations to come, so that they may see the food I fed you in the wilderness when I brought you out from the land of Egypt.’”
###### 33
<span class=verse-body>33</span>Moses said to Aaron, “Take a jar and put in it an omer full of manna, and place it before the Lᴏʀᴅ to be kept for generations to come.”
###### 34
<span class=verse-body>34</span>Just as the Lᴏʀᴅ commanded Moses, so Aaron placed it before the ark of the testimony for safekeeping.
###### 35
<span class=verse-body>35</span>Now the Israelites ate manna forty years, until they came to a land that was inhabited; they ate manna until they came to the border of the land of Canaan.
###### 36
<span class=verse-body>36</span>(Now an omer is one-tenth of an ephah.)
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex15|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex16notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex17|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>