---
aliases: ["Exodus 20", "Ex. 20"]
---
# Exodus 20
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex19|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex20notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex21|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## The Decalogue
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>God spoke all these words:
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 2
<span class=verse-first>2</span>“I, the Lᴏʀᴅ, am your God, who brought you from the land of Egypt, from the house of slavery.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 3
<span class=verse-first>3</span>“You shall have no other gods before me.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 4
<span class=verse-first>4</span>“You shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above or that is on the earth beneath or that is in the water below.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>“You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I, the Lᴏʀᴅ, your God, am a jealous God, responding to the transgression of fathers by dealing with children to the third and fourth generations of those who reject me,
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>“and showing covenant faithfulness to a thousand generations of those who love me and keep my commandments.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 7
<span class=verse-first>7</span>“You shall not take the name of the Lᴏʀᴅ your God in vain, for the Lᴏʀᴅ will not hold guiltless anyone who takes his name in vain.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 8
<span class=verse-first>8</span>“Remember the Sabbath day to set it apart as holy.
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>“For six days you may labor and do all your work,
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>“but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lᴏʀᴅ your God; on it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, or your male servant, or your female servant, or your cattle, or the resident foreigner who is in your gates.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>“For in six days the Lᴏʀᴅ made the heavens and the earth and the sea and all that is in them, and he rested on the seventh day; therefore the Lᴏʀᴅ blessed the Sabbath day and set it apart as holy.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 12
<span class=verse-first>12</span>“Honor your father and your mother, that you may live a long time in the land the Lᴏʀᴅ your God is giving to you.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 13
<span class=verse-first>13</span>“You shall not murder.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 14
<span class=verse-first>14</span>“You shall not commit adultery.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 15
<span class=verse-first>15</span>“You shall not steal.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 16
<span class=verse-first>16</span>“You shall not give false testimony against your neighbor.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 17
<span class=verse-first>17</span>“You shall not covet your neighbor’s house. You shall not covet your neighbor’s wife, nor his male servant, nor his female servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that belongs to your neighbor.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 18
<span class=verse-first>18</span>All the people were seeing the thundering and the lightning, and heard the sound of the horn, and saw the mountain smoking—and when the people saw it they trembled with fear and kept their distance.
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>They said to Moses, “You speak to us and we will listen, but do not let God speak with us, lest we die.”
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>Moses said to the people, “Do not fear, for God has come to test you, that the fear of him may be before you so that you do not sin.”
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>The people kept their distance, but Moses drew near the thick darkness where God was.
## The Altar
###### 22
<span class=verse-first>22</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses, “Thus you will tell the Israelites: ‘You yourselves have seen that I have spoken with you from heaven.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>‘You must not make gods of silver alongside me, nor make gods of gold for yourselves.
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>“‘You must make for me an altar made of earth, and you will sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your cattle. In every place where I cause my name to be honored I will come to you and I will bless you.
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>‘If you make me an altar of stone, you must not build it of stones shaped with tools, for if you use your tool on it you have defiled it.
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>‘And you must not go up by steps to my altar, so that your nakedness is not exposed.’
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex19|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex20notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex21|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>