---
aliases: ["Exodus 24", "Ex. 24"]
---
# Exodus 24
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex23|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex24notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex25|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## The Lord Ratifies the Covenant
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>But to Moses the Lᴏʀᴅ said, “Come up to the Lᴏʀᴅ, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship from a distance.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>“Moses alone may come near the Lᴏʀᴅ, but the others must not come near, nor may the people go up with him.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 3
<span class=verse-first>3</span>Moses came and told the people all the Lᴏʀᴅ’s words and all the decisions. All the people answered together, “We are willing to do all the words that the Lᴏʀᴅ has said,”
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>and Moses wrote down all the words of the Lᴏʀᴅ. Early in the morning he built an altar at the foot of the mountain and arranged twelve standing stones—according to the twelve tribes of Israel.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>He sent young Israelite men, and they offered burnt offerings and sacrificed young bulls for peace offerings to the Lᴏʀᴅ.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>Moses took half of the blood and put it in bowls, and half of the blood he splashed on the altar.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>He took the Book of the Covenant and read it aloud to the people, and they said, “We are willing to do and obey all that the Lᴏʀᴅ has spoken.”
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>So Moses took the blood and splashed it on the people and said, “This is the blood of the covenant that the Lᴏʀᴅ has made with you in accordance with all these words.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 9
<span class=verse-first>9</span>Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and the seventy elders of Israel went up,
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>and they saw the God of Israel. Under his feet there was something like a pavement made of sapphire, clear like the sky itself.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>But he did not lay a hand on the leaders of the Israelites, so they saw God, and they ate and they drank.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 12
<span class=verse-first>12</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses, “Come up to me on the mountain and remain there, and I will give you the stone tablets with the law and the commandments that I have written, so that you may teach them.”
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>So Moses set out with Joshua his attendant, and Moses went up the mountain of God.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>He told the elders, “Wait for us in this place until we return to you. Here are Aaron and Hur with you. Whoever has any matters of dispute can approach them.”
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>Moses went up the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>The glory of the Lᴏʀᴅ resided on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it for six days. On the seventh day he called to Moses from within the cloud.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>Now the appearance of the glory of the Lᴏʀᴅ was like a devouring fire on the top of the mountain in plain view of the people.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>Moses went into the cloud when he went up the mountain, and Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex23|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex24notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex25|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>