---
aliases: ["Exodus 27", "Ex. 27"]
---
# Exodus 27
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex26|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex27notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex28|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## The Altar
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>“You are to make the altar of acacia wood, 7½ feet long, and 7½ feet wide; the altar is to be square, and its height is to be 4½ feet.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>“You are to make its four horns on its four corners; its horns will be part of it, and you are to overlay it with bronze.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>“You are to make its pots for the ashes, its shovels, its tossing bowls, its meat hooks, and its fire pans—you are to make all its utensils of bronze.
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>“You are to make a grating for it, a network of bronze, and you are to make on the network four bronze rings on its four corners.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>“You are to put it under the ledge of the altar below, so that the network will come halfway up the altar.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>“You are to make poles for the altar, poles of acacia wood, and you are to overlay them with bronze.
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>“The poles are to be put into the rings so that the poles will be on two sides of the altar when carrying it.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>“You are to make the altar hollow, out of boards. Just as it was shown you on the mountain, so they must make it.”
## The Courtyard
###### 9
<span class=verse-first>9</span>“You are to make the courtyard of the tabernacle. For the south side there are to be hangings for the courtyard of fine twisted linen, 150 feet long for one side,
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>“with twenty posts and their twenty bronze bases, with the hooks of the posts and their bands of silver.
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>“Likewise for its length on the north side, there are to be hangings for 150 feet, with twenty posts and their twenty bronze bases, with silver hooks and bands on the posts.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>“The width of the court on the west side is to be 75 feet with hangings, with their ten posts and their ten bases.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>“The width of the court on the east side, toward the sunrise, is to be 75 feet.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>“The hangings on one side of the gate are to be 22½ feet long, with their three posts and their three bases.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>“On the second side there are to be hangings 22½ feet long, with their three posts and their three bases.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>“For the gate of the courtyard there is to be a curtain of 30 feet, of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and fine twisted linen, the work of an embroiderer, with four posts and their four bases.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>“All the posts around the courtyard are to have silver bands; their hooks are to be silver, and their bases bronze.
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>“The length of the courtyard is to be 150 feet and the width 75 feet, and the height of the fine twisted linen hangings is to be 7½ feet, with their bronze bases.
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>“All the utensils of the tabernacle used in all its service, all its tent pegs, and all the tent pegs of the courtyard are to be made of bronze.”
## Offering the Oil
###### 20
<span class=verse-first>20</span>“You are to command the Israelites that they bring to you pure oil of pressed olives for the light, so that the lamps will burn regularly.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>“In the tent of meeting outside the curtain that is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons are to arrange it from evening to morning before the Lord. This is to be a lasting ordinance among the Israelites for generations to come.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex26|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex27notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex28|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>