---
aliases: ["Exodus 31", "Ex. 31"]
---
# Exodus 31
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex30|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex31notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex32|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Willing Artisans
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ spoke to Moses,
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>“See, I have chosen Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah,
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>“and I have filled him with the Spirit of God in skill, in understanding, in knowledge, and in all kinds of craftsmanship,
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>“to make artistic designs for work with gold, with silver, and with bronze,
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>“and with cutting and setting stone, and with cutting wood, to work in all kinds of craftsmanship.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>“Moreover, I have also given him Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, and I have given ability to all the specially skilled, that they may make everything I have commanded you:
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>“the tent of meeting, the ark of the testimony, the atonement lid that is on it, all the furnishings of the tent,
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>“the table with its utensils, the pure lampstand with all its utensils, the altar of incense,
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>“the altar for the burnt offering with all its utensils, the large basin with its base,
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>“the woven garments, the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments for his sons, to minister as priests,
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>“the anointing oil, and sweet incense for the Holy Place. They will make all these things just as I have commanded you.”
## Sabbath Observance
###### 12
<span class=verse-first>12</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses,
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>“Tell the Israelites, ‘Surely you must keep my Sabbaths, for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I am the Lᴏʀᴅ who sanctifies you.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>‘So you must keep the Sabbath, for it is holy for you. Everyone who defiles it must surely be put to death; indeed, if anyone does any work on it, then that person will be cut off from among his people.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>‘Six days work may be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of complete rest, holy to the Lᴏʀᴅ; anyone who does work on the Sabbath day must surely be put to death.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>‘The Israelites must keep the Sabbath by observing the Sabbath throughout their generations as a perpetual covenant.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>‘It is a sign between me and the Israelites forever; for in six days the Lᴏʀᴅ made the heavens and the earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed.’”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 18
<span class=verse-first>18</span>He gave Moses two tablets of testimony when he had finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, tablets of stone written by the finger of God.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex30|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex31notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex32|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>