---
aliases: ["Exodus 32", "Ex. 32"]
---
# Exodus 32
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex31|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex32notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex33|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## The Sin of the Golden Calf
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>When the people saw that Moses delayed in coming down from the mountain, they gathered around Aaron and said to him, “Get up, make us gods that will go before us. As for this fellow Moses, the man who brought us up from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him!”
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>So Aaron said to them, “Break off the gold earrings that are on the ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters, and bring them to me.”
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>So all the people broke off the gold earrings that were on their ears and brought them to Aaron.
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>He accepted the gold from them, fashioned it with an engraving tool, and made a molten calf. Then they said, “These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of Egypt.”
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>When Aaron saw this, he built an altar before it, and Aaron made a proclamation and said, “Tomorrow will be a feast to the Lᴏʀᴅ.”
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>So they got up early on the next day and offered up burnt offerings and brought peace offerings, and the people sat down to eat and drink, and they rose up to play.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 7
<span class=verse-first>7</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ spoke to Moses, “Go quickly, descend, because your people, whom you brought up from the land of Egypt, have acted corruptly.
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>“They have quickly turned aside from the way that I commanded them—they have made for themselves a molten calf and have bowed down to it and sacrificed to it and said, ‘These are your gods, O Israel, which brought you up from the land of Egypt.’”
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>Then the Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses, “I have seen this people. Look what a stiff-necked people they are!
###### 10
<span class=verse-body>10</span>“So now, leave me alone so that my anger can burn against them and I can destroy them, and I will make from you a great nation.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 11
<span class=verse-first>11</span>But Moses sought the favor of the Lᴏʀᴅ his God and said, “O Lᴏʀᴅ, why does your anger burn against your people, whom you have brought out from the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty hand?
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>“Why should the Egyptians say, ‘For evil he led them out to kill them in the mountains and to destroy them from the face of the earth’? Turn from your burning anger, and relent of this evil against your people.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>“Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel your servants, to whom you swore by yourself and told them, ‘I will multiply your descendants like the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have spoken about I will give to your descendants, and they will inherit it forever.’”
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>Then the Lᴏʀᴅ relented over the evil that he had said he would do to his people.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 15
<span class=verse-first>15</span>Moses turned and went down from the mountain with the two tablets of the testimony in his hands. The tablets were written on both sides—they were written on the front and on the back.
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>Now the tablets were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God, engraved on the tablets.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>When Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said to Moses, “It is the sound of war in the camp!”
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>Moses said, “It is not the sound of those who shout for victory, nor is it the sound of those who cry because they are overcome, but the sound of singing I hear.”
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>When he approached the camp and saw the calf and the dancing, Moses became extremely angry. He threw the tablets from his hands and broke them to pieces at the bottom of the mountain.
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>He took the calf they had made and burned it in the fire, ground it to powder, poured it out on the water, and made the Israelites drink it.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 21
<span class=verse-first>21</span>Moses said to Aaron, “What did this people do to you, that you have brought on them so great a sin?”
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>Aaron said, “Do not let your anger burn hot, my lord; you know these people, that they tend to evil.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>“They said to me, ‘Make us gods that will go before us, for as for this fellow Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has happened to him.’
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>“So I said to them, ‘Whoever has gold, break it off.’ So they gave it to me, and I threw it into the fire, and this calf came out.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 25
<span class=verse-first>25</span>Moses saw that the people were running wild, for Aaron had let them get completely out of control, causing derision from their enemies.
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>So Moses stood at the entrance of the camp and said, “Whoever is for the Lᴏʀᴅ, come to me.” All the Levites gathered around him,
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>and he said to them, “This is what the Lᴏʀᴅ, the God of Israel, has said ‘Each man fasten his sword on his side, and go back and forth from entrance to entrance throughout the camp, and each one kill his brother, his friend, and his neighbor.’”
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>The Levites did what Moses ordered, and that day about 3,000 men of the people died.
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span>Moses said, “You have been consecrated today for the Lᴏʀᴅ, for each of you was against his son or against his brother, so he has given a blessing to you today.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 30
<span class=verse-first>30</span>The next day Moses said to the people, “You have committed a very serious sin, but now I will go up to the Lᴏʀᴅ—perhaps I can make atonement on behalf of your sin.”
###### 31
<span class=verse-body>31</span>So Moses returned to the Lᴏʀᴅ and said, “Alas, this people has committed a very serious sin, and they have made for themselves gods of gold.
###### 32
<span class=verse-body>32</span>“But now, if you will forgive their sin…, but if not, wipe me out from your book that you have written.”
###### 33
<span class=verse-body>33</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses, “Whoever has sinned against me—that person I will wipe out of my book.
###### 34
<span class=verse-body>34</span>“So now go, lead the people to the place I have spoken to you about. See, my angel will go before you. But on the day that I punish, I will indeed punish them for their sin.”
###### 35
<span class=verse-body>35</span>And the Lᴏʀᴅ sent a plague on the people because they had made the calf—the one Aaron made.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex31|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex32notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex33|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>