---
aliases: ["Exodus 34", "Ex. 34"]
---
# Exodus 34
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex33|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex34notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex35|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## The New Tablets of the Covenant
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses, “Cut out two tablets of stone like the first, and I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you smashed.
###### 2
<span class=verse-body>2</span>“Be prepared in the morning, and go up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and station yourself for me there on the top of the mountain.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>“No one is to come up with you; do not let anyone be seen anywhere on the mountain; not even the flocks or the herds may graze in front of that mountain.”
###### 4
<span class=verse-body>4</span>So Moses cut out two tablets of stone like the first; early in the morning he went up to Mount Sinai, just as the Lᴏʀᴅ had commanded him, and he took in his hand the two tablets of stone.
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the Lᴏʀᴅ by name.
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ passed by before him and proclaimed: “The Lᴏʀᴅ, the Lᴏʀᴅ, the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, and abounding in loyal love and faithfulness,
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>“keeping loyal love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. But he by no means leaves the guilty unpunished, responding to the transgression of fathers by dealing with children and children’s children, to the third and fourth generation.”
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>Moses quickly bowed to the ground and worshiped
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>and said, “If now I have found favor in your sight, O Lord, let my Lord go among us, for we are a stiff-necked people; pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for your inheritance.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 10
<span class=verse-first>10</span>He said, “See, I am going to make a covenant before all your people. I will do wonders such as have not been done in all the earth, nor in any nation. All the people among whom you live will see the work of the Lᴏʀᴅ, for it is a fearful thing that I am doing with you.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 11
<span class=verse-first>11</span>“Obey what I am commanding you this day. I am going to drive out before you the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>“Be careful not to make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land where you are going, lest it become a snare among you.
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>“Rather you must destroy their altars, smash their images, and cut down their Asherah poles.
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>“For you must not worship any other god, for the Lᴏʀᴅ, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God.
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>“Be careful not to make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, for when they prostitute themselves to their gods and sacrifice to their gods, and someone invites you, you will eat from his sacrifice;
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>“and you then take his daughters for your sons, and when his daughters prostitute themselves to their gods, they will make your sons prostitute themselves to their gods as well.
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>“You must not make yourselves molten gods.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 18
<span class=verse-first>18</span>“You must keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread. For seven days you must eat bread made without yeast, as I commanded you; do this at the appointed time of the month Abib, for in the month Abib you came out of Egypt.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 19
<span class=verse-first>19</span>“Every firstborn of the womb belongs to me, even every firstborn of your cattle that is a male, whether ox or sheep.
###### 20
<span class=verse-body>20</span>“Now the firstling of a donkey you may redeem with a lamb, but if you do not redeem it, then break its neck. You must redeem all the firstborn of your sons.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

“No one will appear before me empty-handed.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 21
<span class=verse-first>21</span>“On six days you may labor, but on the seventh day you must rest; even at the time of plowing and of harvest you are to rest.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>“You must observe the Feast of Weeks—the firstfruits of the harvest of wheat—and the Feast of Ingathering at the end of the year.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>“At three times in the year all your men must appear before the Sovereign Lᴏʀᴅ, the God of Israel.
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>“For I will drive out the nations before you and enlarge your borders; no one will covet your land when you go up to appear before the Lᴏʀᴅ your God three times in the year.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 25
<span class=verse-first>25</span>“You must not offer the blood of my sacrifice with yeast; the sacrifice from the Feast of Passover must not remain until the following morning.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 26
<span class=verse-first>26</span>“The first of the firstfruits of your soil you must bring to the house of the Lᴏʀᴅ your God.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

“You must not cook a young goat in its mother’s milk.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 27
<span class=verse-first>27</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ said to Moses, “Write down these words, for in accordance with these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel.”
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>So he was there with the Lᴏʀᴅ forty days and forty nights; he did not eat bread, and he did not drink water. He wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the Ten Commandments.
## The Radiant Face of Moses
###### 29
<span class=verse-first>29</span>Now when Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the two tablets of the testimony in his hand—when he came down from the mountain, Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone while he talked with him.
###### 30
<span class=verse-body>30</span>When Aaron and all the Israelites saw Moses, the skin of his face shone, and they were afraid to approach him.
###### 31
<span class=verse-body>31</span>But Moses called to them, so Aaron and all the leaders of the community came back to him, and Moses spoke to them.
###### 32
<span class=verse-body>32</span>After this all the Israelites approached, and he commanded them all that the Lᴏʀᴅ had spoken to him on Mount Sinai.
###### 33
<span class=verse-body>33</span>When Moses finished speaking with them, he would put a veil on his face.
###### 34
<span class=verse-body>34</span>But when Moses went in before the Lᴏʀᴅ to speak with him, he would remove the veil until he came out. Then he would come out and tell the Israelites what he had been commanded.
###### 35
<span class=verse-body>35</span>When the Israelites would see the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses’ face shone, Moses would put the veil on his face again, until he went in to speak with the Lᴏʀᴅ.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex33|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex34notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex35|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>