---
aliases: ["Exodus 35", "Ex. 35"]
---
# Exodus 35
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex34|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex35notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex36|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Sabbath Regulations
###### 1
<span class=verse-first>1</span>Moses assembled the whole community of the Israelites and said to them, “These are the things that the Lᴏʀᴅ has commanded you to do.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 2
<span class=verse-first>2</span>“In six days work may be done, but on the seventh day there must be a holy day for you, a Sabbath of complete rest to the Lᴏʀᴅ. Anyone who does work on it will be put to death.
###### 3
<span class=verse-body>3</span>“You must not kindle a fire in any of your homes on the Sabbath day.”
## Willing Workers
###### 4
<span class=verse-first>4</span>Moses spoke to the whole community of the Israelites, “This is the word that the Lᴏʀᴅ has commanded:
###### 5
<span class=verse-body>5</span>‘Take an offering for the Lᴏʀᴅ. Let everyone who has a willing heart bring an offering to the Lᴏʀᴅ: gold, silver, bronze;
###### 6
<span class=verse-body>6</span>‘blue, purple, and scarlet yarn; fine linen; goats’ hair;
###### 7
<span class=verse-body>7</span>‘ram skins dyed red; fine leather; acacia wood;
###### 8
<span class=verse-body>8</span>‘olive oil for the light; spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense;
###### 9
<span class=verse-body>9</span>‘onyx stones, and other gems for mounting on the ephod and the breastpiece.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 10
<span class=verse-first>10</span>‘Every skilled person among you is to come and make all that the Lᴏʀᴅ has commanded:
###### 11
<span class=verse-body>11</span>‘the tabernacle with its tent, its covering, its clasps, its frames, its crossbars, its posts, and its bases;
###### 12
<span class=verse-body>12</span>‘the ark, with its poles, the atonement lid, and the special curtain that conceals it;
###### 13
<span class=verse-body>13</span>‘the table with its poles and all its vessels, and the Bread of the Presence;
###### 14
<span class=verse-body>14</span>‘the lampstand for the light and its accessories, its lamps, and oil for the light;
###### 15
<span class=verse-body>15</span>‘and the altar of incense with its poles, the anointing oil, and the fragrant incense; the hanging for the door at the entrance of the tabernacle;
###### 16
<span class=verse-body>16</span>‘the altar for the burnt offering with its bronze grating that is on it, its poles, and all its utensils; the large basin and its pedestal;
###### 17
<span class=verse-body>17</span>‘the hangings of the courtyard, its posts and its bases, and the curtain for the gateway to the courtyard;
###### 18
<span class=verse-body>18</span>‘tent pegs for the tabernacle and tent pegs for the courtyard and their ropes;
###### 19
<span class=verse-body>19</span>‘the woven garments for serving in the Holy Place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments for his sons to minister as priests.’”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 20
<span class=verse-first>20</span>So the whole community of the Israelites went out from the presence of Moses.
###### 21
<span class=verse-body>21</span>Everyone whose heart stirred him to action and everyone whose spirit was willing came and brought the offering for the Lᴏʀᴅ for the work of the tent of meeting, for all its service, and for the holy garments.
###### 22
<span class=verse-body>22</span>They came, men and women alike, all who had willing hearts. They brought brooches, earrings, rings and ornaments, all kinds of gold jewelry, and everyone came who waved a wave offering of gold to the Lᴏʀᴅ.
###### 23
<span class=verse-body>23</span>Everyone who had blue, purple, or scarlet yarn, fine linen, goats’ hair, ram skins dyed red, or fine leather brought them.
###### 24
<span class=verse-body>24</span>Everyone making an offering of silver or bronze brought it as an offering to the Lᴏʀᴅ, and everyone who had acacia wood for any work of the service brought it.
###### 25
<span class=verse-body>25</span>Every woman who was skilled spun with her hands and brought what she had spun, blue, purple, or scarlet yarn, or fine linen,
###### 26
<span class=verse-body>26</span>and all the women whose heart stirred them to action and who were skilled spun goats’ hair.
###### 27
<span class=verse-body>27</span>The leaders brought onyx stones and other gems to be mounted for the ephod and the breastpiece,
###### 28
<span class=verse-body>28</span>and spices and olive oil for the light, for the anointing oil, and for the fragrant incense.
###### 29
<span class=verse-body>29</span>The Israelites brought a freewill offering to the Lᴏʀᴅ, every man and woman whose heart was willing to bring materials for all the work that the Lᴏʀᴅ through Moses had commanded them to do.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 30
<span class=verse-first>30</span>Moses said to the Israelites, “See, the Lᴏʀᴅ has chosen Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.
###### 31
<span class=verse-body>31</span>“He has filled him with the Spirit of God—with skill, with understanding, with knowledge, and in all kinds of work—
###### 32
<span class=verse-body>32</span>“to design artistic designs, to work in gold, in silver, and in bronze,
###### 33
<span class=verse-body>33</span>“and in cutting stones for their setting, and in cutting wood, to do work in every artistic craft.
###### 34
<span class=verse-body>34</span>“And he has put it in his heart to teach, he and Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
###### 35
<span class=verse-body>35</span>“He has filled them with skill to do all kinds of work as craftsmen, as designers, as embroiderers in blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and in fine linen, and as weavers. They are craftsmen in all the work and artistic designers.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ex34|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex35notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ex36|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>