---
aliases: ["Psalm 107", "Ps. 107"]
---
# Psalm 107
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps106|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps107notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps108|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
## Book 5 (Psalms 107-150)
###### 1
><span class=verse-first-poetry>1</span>Give thanks to the Lᴏʀᴅ, for he is good,
>And his loyal love endures.
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span>Let those delivered by the Lᴏʀᴅ speak out,
>Those whom he delivered from the power of the enemy,
###### 3
><span class=verse-body-poetry>3</span>And gathered from foreign lands,
>From east and west,
>From north and south.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 4
><span class=verse-first-poetry>4</span>They wandered through the wilderness, in a wasteland;
>They found no road to a city in which to live.
###### 5
><span class=verse-body-poetry>5</span>They were hungry and thirsty;
>They fainted from exhaustion.
###### 6
><span class=verse-body-poetry>6</span>They cried out to the Lᴏʀᴅ in their distress;
>He delivered them from their troubles.
###### 7
><span class=verse-body-poetry>7</span>He led them on a level road,
>That they might find a city in which to live.
###### 8
><span class=verse-body-poetry>8</span>Let them give thanks to the Lᴏʀᴅ for his loyal love,
>And for the amazing things he has done for people.
###### 9
><span class=verse-body-poetry>9</span>For he has satisfied those who thirst,
>And those who hunger he has filled with food.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 10
><span class=verse-first-poetry>10</span>They sat in utter darkness,
>Bound in painful iron chains,
###### 11
><span class=verse-body-poetry>11</span>Because they had rebelled against God’s commands,
>And rejected the instructions of the Most High.
###### 12
><span class=verse-body-poetry>12</span>So he used suffering to humble them;
>They stumbled and no one helped them up.
###### 13
><span class=verse-body-poetry>13</span>They cried out to the Lᴏʀᴅ in their distress;
>He delivered them from their troubles.
###### 14
><span class=verse-body-poetry>14</span>He brought them out of the utter darkness,
>And tore off their shackles.
###### 15
><span class=verse-body-poetry>15</span>Let them give thanks to the Lᴏʀᴅ for his loyal love,
>And for the amazing things he has done for people.
###### 16
><span class=verse-body-poetry>16</span>For he shattered the bronze gates,
>And hacked through the iron bars.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 17
><span class=verse-first-poetry>17</span>They acted like fools in their rebellious ways,
>And suffered because of their sins.
###### 18
><span class=verse-body-poetry>18</span>They lost their appetite for all food,
>And they drew near the gates of death.
###### 19
><span class=verse-body-poetry>19</span>They cried out to the Lᴏʀᴅ in their distress;
>He delivered them from their troubles.
###### 20
><span class=verse-body-poetry>20</span>He sent them an assuring word and healed them;
>He rescued them from the pits where they were trapped.
###### 21
><span class=verse-body-poetry>21</span>Let them give thanks to the Lᴏʀᴅ for his loyal love,
>And for the amazing things he has done for people.
###### 22
><span class=verse-body-poetry>22</span>Let them present thank offerings,
>And loudly proclaim what he has done.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 23
><span class=verse-first-poetry>23</span>Some traveled on the sea in ships,
>And carried cargo over the vast waters.
###### 24
><span class=verse-body-poetry>24</span>They witnessed the acts of the Lᴏʀᴅ,
>His amazing feats on the deep water.
###### 25
><span class=verse-body-poetry>25</span>He gave the order for a windstorm,
>And it stirred up the waves of the sea.
###### 26
><span class=verse-body-poetry>26</span>They reached up to the sky,
>Then dropped into the depths.
>The sailors’ strength left them because the danger was so great.
###### 27
><span class=verse-body-poetry>27</span>They swayed and staggered like drunks,
>And all their skill proved ineffective.
###### 28
><span class=verse-body-poetry>28</span>They cried out to the Lᴏʀᴅ in their distress;
>He delivered them from their troubles.
###### 29
><span class=verse-body-poetry>29</span>He calmed the storm,
>And the waves grew silent.
###### 30
><span class=verse-body-poetry>30</span>The sailors rejoiced because the waves grew quiet,
>And he led them to the harbor they desired.
###### 31
><span class=verse-body-poetry>31</span>Let them give thanks to the Lᴏʀᴅ for his loyal love,
>And for the amazing things he has done for people.
###### 32
><span class=verse-body-poetry>32</span>Let them exalt him in the assembly of the people.
>Let them praise him in the place where the leaders preside.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 33
><span class=verse-first-poetry>33</span>He turned streams into a desert,
>Springs of water into arid land,
###### 34
><span class=verse-body-poetry>34</span>And a fruitful land into a barren place,
>Because of the sin of its inhabitants.
###### 35
><span class=verse-body-poetry>35</span>As for his people, he turned a desert into a pool of water,
>And a dry land into springs of water.
###### 36
><span class=verse-body-poetry>36</span>He allowed the hungry to settle there,
>And they established a city in which to live.
###### 37
><span class=verse-body-poetry>37</span>They cultivated fields,
>And planted vineyards,
>Which yielded a harvest of fruit.
###### 38
><span class=verse-body-poetry>38</span>He blessed them so that they became very numerous.
>He would not allow their cattle to decrease in number.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 39
><span class=verse-first-poetry>39</span>As for their enemies, they decreased in number and were beaten down,
>Because of painful distress and suffering.
###### 40
><span class=verse-body-poetry>40</span>He would pour contempt upon princes,
>And he made them wander in a wasteland with no road.
###### 41
><span class=verse-body-poetry>41</span>Yet he protected the needy from oppression,
>And cared for his families like a flock of sheep.
###### 42
><span class=verse-body-poetry>42</span>When the godly see this, they rejoice,
>And every sinner shuts his mouth.
###### 43
><span class=verse-body-poetry>43</span>Whoever is wise, let him take note of these things.
>Let them consider the Lᴏʀᴅ’s acts of loyal love.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps106|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps107notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps108|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>