---
aliases: ["Psalm 104", "Ps. 104"]
---
# Psalm 104
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps103|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps104notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps105|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
><span class=verse-first-poetry>1</span>Praise the Lᴏʀᴅ, O my soul!
>O Lᴏʀᴅ my God, you are magnificent.
>You are robed in splendor and majesty.
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span>He covers himself with light as if it were a garment.
>He stretches out the skies like a tent curtain,
###### 3
><span class=verse-body-poetry>3</span>And lays the beams of the upper rooms of his palace on the rain clouds.
>He makes the clouds his chariot,
>And travels on the wings of the wind.
###### 4
><span class=verse-body-poetry>4</span>He makes the winds his messengers,
>And the flaming fire his attendant.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 5
><span class=verse-first-poetry>5</span>He established the earth on its foundations;
>It will never be moved.
###### 6
><span class=verse-body-poetry>6</span>The watery deep covered it like a garment;
>The waters reached above the mountains.
###### 7
><span class=verse-body-poetry>7</span>Your shout made the waters retreat;
>At the sound of your thunderous voice they hurried off—
###### 8
><span class=verse-body-poetry>8</span>As the mountains rose up,
>And the valleys went down—
>To the place you appointed for them.
###### 9
><span class=verse-body-poetry>9</span>You set up a boundary for them that they could not cross,
>So that they would not cover the earth again.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 10
><span class=verse-first-poetry>10</span>He turns springs into streams;
>They flow between the mountains.
###### 11
><span class=verse-body-poetry>11</span>They provide water for all the animals in the field;
>The wild donkeys quench their thirst.
###### 12
><span class=verse-body-poetry>12</span>The birds of the sky live beside them;
>They chirp among the bushes.
###### 13
><span class=verse-body-poetry>13</span>He waters the mountains from the upper rooms of his palace;
>The earth is full of the fruit you cause to grow.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 14
><span class=verse-first-poetry>14</span>He provides grass for the cattle,
>And crops for people to cultivate,
>So they can produce food from the ground,
###### 15
><span class=verse-body-poetry>15</span>As well as wine that makes people glad,
>And olive oil to make their faces shine,
>As well as bread that sustains them.
###### 16
><span class=verse-body-poetry>16</span>The trees of the Lᴏʀᴅ receive all the rain they need,
>The cedars of Lebanon that he planted,
###### 17
><span class=verse-body-poetry>17</span>Where the birds make nests,
>Near the evergreens in which the herons live.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 18
><span class=verse-first-poetry>18</span>The wild goats live in the high mountains;
>The rock badgers find safety in the cliffs.
###### 19
><span class=verse-body-poetry>19</span>He made the moon to mark the months,
>And the sun sets according to a regular schedule.
###### 20
><span class=verse-body-poetry>20</span>You make it dark and night comes,
>During which all the beasts of the forest prowl around.
###### 21
><span class=verse-body-poetry>21</span>The lions roar for prey,
>Seeking their food from God.
###### 22
><span class=verse-body-poetry>22</span>When the sun rises, they withdraw
>And sleep in their dens.
###### 23
><span class=verse-body-poetry>23</span>People then go out to do their work,
>And they labor until evening.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 24
><span class=verse-first-poetry>24</span>How many living things you have made, O Lᴏʀᴅ!
>You have exhibited great skill in making all of them;
>The earth is full of the living things you have made.
###### 25
><span class=verse-body-poetry>25</span>Over here is the deep, wide sea,
>Which teems with innumerable swimming creatures,
>Living things both small and large.
###### 26
><span class=verse-body-poetry>26</span>The ships travel there,
>And over here swims the whale you made to play in it.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 27
><span class=verse-first-poetry>27</span>All your creatures wait for you
>To provide them with food on a regular basis.
###### 28
><span class=verse-body-poetry>28</span>You give food to them and they receive it;
>You open your hand and they are filled with food.
###### 29
><span class=verse-body-poetry>29</span>When you ignore them, they panic.
>When you take away their life’s breath,
>They die and return to dust.
###### 30
><span class=verse-body-poetry>30</span>When you send your life-giving breath, they are created,
>And you replenish the surface of the ground.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 31
><span class=verse-first-poetry>31</span>May the splendor of the Lᴏʀᴅ endure.
>May the Lᴏʀᴅ find pleasure in the living things he has made.
###### 32
><span class=verse-body-poetry>32</span>He looks down on the earth and it shakes;
>He touches the mountains and they start to smolder.
###### 33
><span class=verse-body-poetry>33</span>I will sing to the Lᴏʀᴅ as long as I live;
>I will sing praise to my God as long as I exist.
###### 34
><span class=verse-body-poetry>34</span>May my thoughts be pleasing to him.
>I will rejoice in the Lᴏʀᴅ.
###### 35
><span class=verse-body-poetry>35</span>May sinners disappear from the earth,
>And the wicked vanish.
>Praise the Lᴏʀᴅ, O my soul.
>Praise the Lᴏʀᴅ.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps103|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps104notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps105|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>