---
aliases: ["Psalm 19", "Ps. 19"]
---
# Psalm 19
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps18|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps19notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps20|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
><span class=verse-first-poetry>1</span>The heavens declare the glory of God;
>The sky displays his handiwork.
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span>Day after day it speaks out;
>Night after night it reveals his greatness.
###### 3
><span class=verse-body-poetry>3</span>There is no actual speech or word,
>Nor is its voice literally heard.
###### 4
><span class=verse-body-poetry>4</span>Yet its voice echoes throughout the earth;
>Its words carry to the distant horizon.
>In the sky he has pitched a tent for the sun.
###### 5
><span class=verse-body-poetry>5</span>Like a bridegroom it emerges from its chamber;
>Like a strong man it enjoys running its course.
###### 6
><span class=verse-body-poetry>6</span>It emerges from the distant horizon,
>And goes from one end of the sky to the other;
>Nothing can escape its heat.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 7
><span class=verse-first-poetry>7</span>The law of the Lᴏʀᴅ is perfect
>And preserves one’s life.
>The rules set down by the Lᴏʀᴅ are reliable
>And impart wisdom to the inexperienced.
###### 8
><span class=verse-body-poetry>8</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ’s precepts are fair
>And make one joyful.
>The Lᴏʀᴅ’s commands are pure
>And give insight for life.
###### 9
><span class=verse-body-poetry>9</span>The commands to fear the Lᴏʀᴅ are right
>And endure forever.
>The judgments given by the Lᴏʀᴅ are trustworthy
>And absolutely just.
###### 10
><span class=verse-body-poetry>10</span>They are of greater value than gold,
>Than even a great amount of pure gold;
>They bring greater delight than honey,
>Than even the sweetest honey from a honeycomb.
###### 11
><span class=verse-body-poetry>11</span>Yes, your servant finds moral guidance there;
>Those who obey them receive a rich reward.
###### 12
><span class=verse-body-poetry>12</span>Who can know all his errors?
>Please do not punish me for sins I am unaware of.
###### 13
><span class=verse-body-poetry>13</span>Moreover, keep me from committing flagrant sins;
>Do not allow such sins to control me.
>Then I will be blameless,
>And innocent of blatant rebellion.
###### 14
><span class=verse-body-poetry>14</span>May my words and my thoughts
>Be acceptable in your sight,
>O Lᴏʀᴅ, my sheltering rock and my redeemer.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps18|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps19notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps20|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>