---
aliases: ["Psalm 31", "Ps. 31"]
---
# Psalm 31
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps30|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps31notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps32|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
><span class=verse-first-poetry>1</span>In you, O Lᴏʀᴅ, I have taken shelter.
>Never let me be humiliated.
>Vindicate me by rescuing me.
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span>Listen to me.
>Quickly deliver me.
>Be my protector and refuge,
>A stronghold where I can be safe.
###### 3
><span class=verse-body-poetry>3</span>For you are my high ridge and my stronghold;
>For the sake of your own reputation you lead me and guide me.
###### 4
><span class=verse-body-poetry>4</span>You will free me from the net they hid for me,
>For you are my place of refuge.
###### 5
><span class=verse-body-poetry>5</span>Into your hand I entrust my life;
>You will rescue me, O Lᴏʀᴅ, the faithful God.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 6
><span class=verse-first-poetry>6</span>I hate those who serve worthless idols,
>But I trust in the Lᴏʀᴅ.
###### 7
><span class=verse-body-poetry>7</span>I will be happy and rejoice in your faithfulness,
>Because you notice my pain
>And you are aware of how distressed I am.
###### 8
><span class=verse-body-poetry>8</span>You do not deliver me over to the power of the enemy;
>You enable me to stand in a wide open place.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 9
><span class=verse-first-poetry>9</span>Have mercy on me, Lᴏʀᴅ, for I am in distress!
>My eyes grow dim from suffering.
>I have lost my strength.
###### 10
><span class=verse-body-poetry>10</span>For my life nears its end in pain;
>My years draw to a close as I groan.
>My strength fails me because of my sin,
>And my bones become brittle.
###### 11
><span class=verse-body-poetry>11</span>Because of all my enemies, people disdain me;
>My neighbors are appalled by my suffering—
>Those who know me are horrified by my condition;
>Those who see me in the street run away from me.
###### 12
><span class=verse-body-poetry>12</span>I am forgotten, like a dead man no one thinks about;
>I am regarded as worthless, like a broken jar.
###### 13
><span class=verse-body-poetry>13</span>For I hear what so many are saying,
>The terrifying news that comes from every direction.
>When they plot together against me,
>They figure out how they can take my life.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 14
><span class=verse-first-poetry>14</span>But I trust in you, O Lᴏʀᴅ!
>I declare, “You are my God!”
###### 15
><span class=verse-body-poetry>15</span>You determine my destiny.
>Rescue me from the power of my enemies and those who chase me.
###### 16
><span class=verse-body-poetry>16</span>Smile on your servant.
>Deliver me because of your faithfulness.
###### 17
><span class=verse-body-poetry>17</span>O Lᴏʀᴅ, do not let me be humiliated,
>For I call out to you.
>May evil men be humiliated.
>May they go wailing to the grave.
###### 18
><span class=verse-body-poetry>18</span>May lying lips be silenced—
>Lips that speak defiantly against the innocent
>With arrogance and contempt.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 19
><span class=verse-first-poetry>19</span>How great is your favor,
>Which you store up for your loyal followers.
>In plain sight of everyone you bestow it on those who take shelter in you.
###### 20
><span class=verse-body-poetry>20</span>You hide them with you, where they are safe from the attacks of men;
>You conceal them in a shelter, where they are safe from slanderous attacks.
###### 21
><span class=verse-body-poetry>21</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ deserves praise
>For he demonstrated his amazing faithfulness to me when I was besieged by enemies.
###### 22
><span class=verse-body-poetry>22</span>I jumped to conclusions and said,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>I am cut off from your presence!”
>But you heard my plea for mercy when I cried out to you for help.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 23
><span class=verse-first-poetry>23</span>Love the Lᴏʀᴅ, all you faithful followers of his!
>The Lᴏʀᴅ protects those who have integrity,
>But he pays back in full the one who acts arrogantly.
###### 24
><span class=verse-body-poetry>24</span>Be strong and confident,
>All you who wait on the Lᴏʀᴅ.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps30|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps31notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps32|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>