---
aliases: ["Psalm 35", "Ps. 35"]
---
# Psalm 35
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps34|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps35notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps36|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
><span class=verse-first-poetry>1</span>O Lᴏʀᴅ, fight those who fight with me.
>Attack those who attack me.
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span>Grab your small shield and large shield,
>And rise up to help me.
###### 3
><span class=verse-body-poetry>3</span>Use your spear and lance against those who chase me.
>Assure me with these words: “I am your deliverer.”
###### 4
><span class=verse-body-poetry>4</span>May those who seek my life be embarrassed and humiliated.
>May those who plan to harm me be turned back and ashamed.
###### 5
><span class=verse-body-poetry>5</span>May they be like wind-driven chaff,
>As the angel of the Lᴏʀᴅ attacks them.
###### 6
><span class=verse-body-poetry>6</span>May their path be dark and slippery,
>As the angel of the Lᴏʀᴅ chases them.
###### 7
><span class=verse-body-poetry>7</span>I did not harm them, but they hid a net to catch me
>And dug a pit to trap me.
###### 8
><span class=verse-body-poetry>8</span>Let destruction take them by surprise.
>Let the net they hid catch them.
>Let them fall into destruction.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 9
><span class=verse-first-poetry>9</span>Then I will rejoice in the Lᴏʀᴅ
>And be happy because of his deliverance.
###### 10
><span class=verse-body-poetry>10</span>With all my strength I will say,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>O Lᴏʀᴅ, who can compare to you?
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>You rescue the oppressed from those who try to overpower them,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>The oppressed and needy from those who try to rob them.”
###### 11
><span class=verse-body-poetry>11</span>Violent men perjure themselves,
>And falsely accuse me.
###### 12
><span class=verse-body-poetry>12</span>They repay me evil for the good I have done;
>I am overwhelmed with sorrow.
###### 13
><span class=verse-body-poetry>13</span>When they were sick, I wore sackcloth,
>And refrained from eating food.
>(If I am lying, may my prayers go unanswered.)
###### 14
><span class=verse-body-poetry>14</span>I mourned for them as I would for a friend or my brother.
>I bowed down in sorrow as if I were mourning for my mother.
###### 15
><span class=verse-body-poetry>15</span>But when I stumbled, they rejoiced and gathered together;
>They gathered together to ambush me.
>They tore at me without stopping to rest.
###### 16
><span class=verse-body-poetry>16</span>When I tripped, they taunted me relentlessly,
>And tried to bite me.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 17
><span class=verse-first-poetry>17</span>O Lord, how long are you going to watch this?
>Rescue me from their destructive attacks;
>Guard my life from the young lions.
###### 18
><span class=verse-body-poetry>18</span>Then I will give you thanks in the great assembly;
>I will praise you before a large crowd of people.
###### 19
><span class=verse-body-poetry>19</span>Do not let those who are my enemies for no reason gloat over me.
>Do not let those who hate me without cause carry out their wicked schemes.
###### 20
><span class=verse-body-poetry>20</span>For they do not try to make peace with others,
>But plan ways to deceive those who live peacefully in the land.
###### 21
><span class=verse-body-poetry>21</span>They are ready to devour me;
>They say, “Aha! Aha! We’ve got you!”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 22
><span class=verse-first-poetry>22</span>But you take notice, Lᴏʀᴅ; do not be silent!
>O Lord, do not remain far away from me.
###### 23
><span class=verse-body-poetry>23</span>Rouse yourself, wake up and vindicate me.
>My God and Lord, defend my just cause.
###### 24
><span class=verse-body-poetry>24</span>Vindicate me by your justice, O Lᴏʀᴅ my God.
>Do not let them gloat over me.
###### 25
><span class=verse-body-poetry>25</span>Do not let them say to themselves, “Aha! We have what we wanted!”
>Do not let them say, “We have devoured him.”
###### 26
><span class=verse-body-poetry>26</span>May those who rejoice in my troubles be totally embarrassed and ashamed.
>May those who arrogantly taunt me be covered with shame and humiliation.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 27
><span class=verse-first-poetry>27</span>May those who desire my vindication shout for joy and rejoice.
>May they continually say, “May the Lᴏʀᴅ be praised, for he wants his servant to be secure.”
###### 28
><span class=verse-body-poetry>28</span>Then I will tell others about your justice,
>And praise you all day long.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps34|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps35notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps36|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>