---
aliases: ["Psalm 37", "Ps. 37"]
---
# Psalm 37
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps36|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps37notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps38|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
><span class=verse-first-poetry>1</span>Do not fret when wicked men seem to succeed.
>Do not envy evildoers.
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span>For they will quickly dry up like grass,
>And wither away like plants.
###### 3
><span class=verse-body-poetry>3</span>Trust in the Lᴏʀᴅ and do what is right.
>Settle in the land and maintain your integrity.
###### 4
><span class=verse-body-poetry>4</span>Then you will take delight in the Lᴏʀᴅ,
>And he will answer your prayers.
###### 5
><span class=verse-body-poetry>5</span>Commit your future to the Lᴏʀᴅ.
>Trust in him, and he will act on your behalf.
###### 6
><span class=verse-body-poetry>6</span>He will vindicate you in broad daylight,
>And publicly defend your just cause.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 7
><span class=verse-first-poetry>7</span>Wait patiently for the Lᴏʀᴅ!
>Wait confidently for him!
>Do not fret over the apparent success of a sinner,
>A man who carries out wicked schemes.
###### 8
><span class=verse-body-poetry>8</span>Do not be angry and frustrated.
>Do not fret. That only leads to trouble.
###### 9
><span class=verse-body-poetry>9</span>Wicked men will be wiped out,
>But those who rely on the Lᴏʀᴅ are the ones who will possess the land.
###### 10
><span class=verse-body-poetry>10</span>Evil men will soon disappear;
>You will stare at the spot where they once were, but they will be gone.
###### 11
><span class=verse-body-poetry>11</span>But the oppressed will possess the land
>And enjoy great prosperity.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 12
><span class=verse-first-poetry>12</span>Evil men plot against the godly
>And viciously attack them.
###### 13
><span class=verse-body-poetry>13</span>The Lord laughs in disgust at them,
>For he knows that their day is coming.
###### 14
><span class=verse-body-poetry>14</span>Evil men draw their swords
>And prepare their bows,
>To bring down the oppressed and needy,
>And to slaughter those who are godly.
###### 15
><span class=verse-body-poetry>15</span>Their swords will pierce their own hearts,
>And their bows will be broken.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 16
><span class=verse-first-poetry>16</span>The little bit that a godly man owns is better than
>The wealth of many evil men,
###### 17
><span class=verse-body-poetry>17</span>For evil men will lose their power,
>But the Lᴏʀᴅ sustains the godly.
###### 18
><span class=verse-body-poetry>18</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ watches over the innocent day by day,
>And they possess a permanent inheritance.
###### 19
><span class=verse-body-poetry>19</span>They will not be ashamed when hard times come;
>When famine comes they will have enough to eat.
###### 20
><span class=verse-body-poetry>20</span>But evil men will die;
>The Lᴏʀᴅ’s enemies will be incinerated—
>They will go up in smoke.
###### 21
><span class=verse-body-poetry>21</span>Evil men borrow, but do not repay their debt,
>But the godly show compassion and are generous.
###### 22
><span class=verse-body-poetry>22</span>Surely those favored by the Lᴏʀᴅ will possess the land,
>But those rejected by him will be wiped out.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 23
><span class=verse-first-poetry>23</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ grants success to the one
>Whose behavior he finds commendable.
###### 24
><span class=verse-body-poetry>24</span>Even if he trips, he will not fall headlong,
>For the Lᴏʀᴅ holds his hand.
###### 25
><span class=verse-body-poetry>25</span>I was once young, now I am old.
>I have never seen the godly abandoned,
>Or their children forced to search for food.
###### 26
><span class=verse-body-poetry>26</span>All day long they show compassion and lend to others,
>And their children are blessed.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 27
><span class=verse-first-poetry>27</span>Turn away from evil. Do what is right.
>Then you will enjoy lasting security.
###### 28
><span class=verse-body-poetry>28</span>For the Lᴏʀᴅ promotes justice,
>And never abandons his faithful followers.
>They are permanently secure,
>But the children of the wicked are wiped out.
###### 29
><span class=verse-body-poetry>29</span>The godly will possess the land
>And will dwell in it permanently.
###### 30
><span class=verse-body-poetry>30</span>The godly speak wise words
>And promote justice.
###### 31
><span class=verse-body-poetry>31</span>The law of their God controls their thinking;
>Their feet do not slip.
###### 32
><span class=verse-body-poetry>32</span>The wicked set an ambush for the godly
>And try to kill them.
###### 33
><span class=verse-body-poetry>33</span>But the Lᴏʀᴅ does not surrender the godly,
>Or allow them to be condemned in a court of law.
###### 34
><span class=verse-body-poetry>34</span>Rely on the Lᴏʀᴅ. Obey his commands.
>Then he will permit you to possess the land;
>You will see the demise of the wicked.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 35
><span class=verse-first-poetry>35</span>I have seen ruthless, wicked people
>Growing in influence, like a green tree grows in its native soil.
###### 36
><span class=verse-body-poetry>36</span>But then one passes by, and suddenly they have disappeared.
>I looked for them, but they could not be found.
###### 37
><span class=verse-body-poetry>37</span>Take note of the one who has integrity. Observe the upright.
>For the one who promotes peace has a future.
###### 38
><span class=verse-body-poetry>38</span>Sinful rebels are totally destroyed;
>The wicked have no future.
###### 39
><span class=verse-body-poetry>39</span>But the Lᴏʀᴅ delivers the godly;
>He protects them in times of trouble.
###### 40
><span class=verse-body-poetry>40</span>The Lᴏʀᴅ helps them and rescues them;
>He rescues them from the wicked and delivers them,
>For they seek his protection.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps36|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps37notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps38|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>