---
aliases: ["Psalm 65", "Ps. 65"]
---
# Psalm 65
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps64|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps65notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps66|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
><span class=verse-first-poetry>1</span>Praise awaits you, O God, in Zion.
>Vows made to you are fulfilled.
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span>You hear prayers;
>All people approach you.
###### 3
><span class=verse-body-poetry>3</span>Our record of sins overwhelms me,
>But you forgive our acts of rebellion.
###### 4
><span class=verse-body-poetry>4</span>How blessed is the one whom you choose,
>And allow to live in your palace courts.
>May we be satisfied with the good things of your house—
>Your holy palace.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 5
><span class=verse-first-poetry>5</span>You answer our prayers by performing awesome acts of deliverance,
>O God, our savior.
>All the ends of the earth trust in you,
>As well as those living across the wide seas.
###### 6
><span class=verse-body-poetry>6</span>You created the mountains by your power,
>And demonstrated your strength.
###### 7
><span class=verse-body-poetry>7</span>You calmed the raging seas
>And their roaring waves,
>As well as the commotion made by the nations.
###### 8
><span class=verse-body-poetry>8</span>Even those living in the remotest areas are awestruck by your acts;
>You cause those living in the east and west to praise you.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 9
><span class=verse-first-poetry>9</span>You visit the earth and give it rain;
>You make it rich and fertile.
>God’s streams are full of water;
>You provide grain for the people of the earth,
>For you have prepared the earth in this way.
###### 10
><span class=verse-body-poetry>10</span>You saturate its furrows,
>And soak its plowed ground.
>With rain showers you soften its soil,
>And make its crops grow.
###### 11
><span class=verse-body-poetry>11</span>You crown the year with your good blessings,
>And you leave abundance in your wake.
###### 12
><span class=verse-body-poetry>12</span>The pastures in the wilderness glisten with moisture,
>And the hills are clothed with joy.
###### 13
><span class=verse-body-poetry>13</span>The meadows are clothed with sheep,
>And the valleys are covered with grain.
>They shout joyfully, yes, they sing.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps64|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps65notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps66|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>