---
aliases: ["Psalm 68", "Ps. 68"]
---
# Psalm 68
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps67|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps68notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps69|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
><span class=verse-first-poetry>1</span>God springs into action.
>His enemies scatter;
>His adversaries run from him.
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span>As smoke is driven away by the wind, so you drive them away.
>As wax melts before fire,
>So the wicked are destroyed before God.
###### 3
><span class=verse-body-poetry>3</span>But the godly are happy;
>They rejoice before God
>And are overcome with joy.
###### 4
><span class=verse-body-poetry>4</span>Sing to God! Sing praises to his name.
>Exalt the one who rides on the clouds.
>For the Lᴏʀᴅ is his name.
>Rejoice before him.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 5
><span class=verse-first-poetry>5</span>He is a father to the fatherless
>And an advocate for widows.
>God rules from his holy dwelling place.
###### 6
><span class=verse-body-poetry>6</span>God settles in their own homes those who have been deserted;
>He frees prisoners and grants them prosperity.
>But sinful rebels live in the desert.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 7
><span class=verse-first-poetry>7</span>O God, when you lead your people into battle,
>When you march through the wastelands, (Selah)
###### 8
><span class=verse-body-poetry>8</span>The earth shakes.
>Yes, the heavens pour down rain
>Before God, the God of Sinai,
>Before God, the God of Israel.
###### 9
><span class=verse-body-poetry>9</span>O God, you cause abundant showers to fall on your chosen people.
>When they are tired, you sustain them,
###### 10
><span class=verse-body-poetry>10</span>For you live among them.
>You sustain the oppressed with your good blessings, O God.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 11
><span class=verse-first-poetry>11</span>The Lord speaks;
>Many, many women spread the good news.
###### 12
><span class=verse-body-poetry>12</span>Kings leading armies run away—they run away!
>The lovely lady of the house divides up the loot.
###### 13
><span class=verse-body-poetry>13</span>When you lie down among the sheepfolds,
>The wings of the dove are covered with silver
>And with glittering gold.
###### 14
><span class=verse-body-poetry>14</span>When the Sovereign One scatters kings,
>Let it snow on Zalmon.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 15
><span class=verse-first-poetry>15</span>The mountain of Bashan is a towering mountain;
>The mountain of Bashan is a mountain with many peaks.
###### 16
><span class=verse-body-poetry>16</span>Why do you look with envy, O mountains with many peaks,
>At the mountain where God has decided to live?
>Indeed the Lᴏʀᴅ will live there permanently.
###### 17
><span class=verse-body-poetry>17</span>God has countless chariots;
>They number in the thousands.
>The Lord comes from Sinai in holy splendor.
###### 18
><span class=verse-body-poetry>18</span>You ascend on high;
>You have taken many captives.
>You receive tribute from men,
>Including even sinful rebels.
>Indeed, the Lᴏʀᴅ God lives there.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 19
><span class=verse-first-poetry>19</span>The Lord deserves praise.
>Day after day he carries our burden,
>The God who delivers us. (Selah)
###### 20
><span class=verse-body-poetry>20</span>Our God is a God who delivers;
>The Lᴏʀᴅ, the Sovereign Lord, can rescue from death.
###### 21
><span class=verse-body-poetry>21</span>Indeed, God strikes the heads of his enemies,
>The hairy foreheads of those who persist in rebellion.
###### 22
><span class=verse-body-poetry>22</span>The Lord says,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>I will retrieve them from Bashan.
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>I will bring them back from the depths of the sea,
###### 23
><span class=verse-body-poetry>23</span><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>So that your feet may stomp in their blood,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>And your dogs may eat their portion of the enemies’ corpses.”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 24
><span class=verse-first-poetry>24</span>They see your processions, O God—
>The processions of my God, my king, who marches along in holy splendor.
###### 25
><span class=verse-body-poetry>25</span>Singers walk in front;
>Musicians follow playing their stringed instruments,
>In the midst of young women playing tambourines.
###### 26
><span class=verse-body-poetry>26</span>In your large assemblies praise God,
>The Lᴏʀᴅ, in the assemblies of Israel.
###### 27
><span class=verse-body-poetry>27</span>There is little Benjamin, their ruler,
>And the princes of Judah in their robes,
>Along with the princes of Zebulun and the princes of Naphtali.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 28
><span class=verse-first-poetry>28</span>God has decreed that you will be powerful.
>O God, you who have acted on our behalf, demonstrate your power.
###### 29
><span class=verse-body-poetry>29</span>Because of your temple in Jerusalem,
>Kings bring tribute to you.
###### 30
><span class=verse-body-poetry>30</span>Sound your battle cry against the wild beast of the reeds,
>And the nations that assemble like a herd of calves led by bulls.
>They humble themselves and offer gold and silver as tribute.
>God scatters the nations that like to do battle.
###### 31
><span class=verse-body-poetry>31</span>They come with red cloth from Egypt.
>Ethiopia voluntarily offers tribute to God.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 32
><span class=verse-first-poetry>32</span>O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God.
>Sing praises to the Lord, (Selah)
###### 33
><span class=verse-body-poetry>33</span>To the one who rides through the sky from ancient times.
>Look! He thunders loudly.
###### 34
><span class=verse-body-poetry>34</span>Acknowledge God’s power,
>His sovereignty over Israel,
>And the power he reveals in the skies.
###### 35
><span class=verse-body-poetry>35</span>You are awe-inspiring, O God, as you emerge from your holy temple.
>It is the God of Israel who gives the people power and strength.
>God deserves praise!
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps67|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps68notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps69|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>