---
aliases: ["Psalm 78", "Ps. 78"]
---
# Psalm 78
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps77|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps78notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps79|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>
###### 1
><span class=verse-first-poetry>1</span>Pay attention, my people, to my instruction.
>Listen to the words I speak.
###### 2
><span class=verse-body-poetry>2</span>I will sing a song that imparts wisdom;
>I will make insightful observations about the past.
###### 3
><span class=verse-body-poetry>3</span>What we have heard and learned—
>That which our ancestors have told us—
###### 4
><span class=verse-body-poetry>4</span>We will not hide from their descendants.
>We will tell the next generation
>About the Lᴏʀᴅ’s praiseworthy acts,
>About his strength and the amazing things he has done.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 5
><span class=verse-first-poetry>5</span>He established a rule in Jacob;
>He set up a law in Israel.
>He commanded our ancestors
>To make his deeds known to their descendants,
###### 6
><span class=verse-body-poetry>6</span>So that the next generation, children yet to be born,
>Might know about them.
>They will grow up and tell their descendants about them.
###### 7
><span class=verse-body-poetry>7</span>Then they will place their confidence in God.
>They will not forget the works of God,
>And they will obey his commands.
###### 8
><span class=verse-body-poetry>8</span>Then they will not be like their ancestors,
>Who were a stubborn and rebellious generation,
>A generation that was not committed
>And faithful to God.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 9
><span class=verse-first-poetry>9</span>The Ephraimites were armed with bows,
>But they retreated in the day of battle.
###### 10
><span class=verse-body-poetry>10</span>They did not keep their covenant with God,
>And they refused to obey his law.
###### 11
><span class=verse-body-poetry>11</span>They forgot what he had done,
>The amazing things he had shown them.
###### 12
><span class=verse-body-poetry>12</span>He did amazing things in the sight of their ancestors,
>In the land of Egypt, in the region of Zoan.
###### 13
><span class=verse-body-poetry>13</span>He divided the sea and led them across it;
>He made the water stand in a heap.
###### 14
><span class=verse-body-poetry>14</span>He led them with a cloud by day,
>And with the light of a fire all night long.
###### 15
><span class=verse-body-poetry>15</span>He broke open rocks in the wilderness,
>And gave them enough water to fill the depths of the sea.
###### 16
><span class=verse-body-poetry>16</span>He caused streams to flow from the rock,
>And made the water flow like rivers.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 17
><span class=verse-first-poetry>17</span>Yet they continued to sin against him,
>And rebelled against the Most High in the desert.
###### 18
><span class=verse-body-poetry>18</span>They willfully challenged God
>By asking for food to satisfy their appetite.
###### 19
><span class=verse-body-poetry>19</span>They insulted God, saying,
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Is God really able to give us food in the wilderness?
###### 20
><span class=verse-body-poetry>20</span><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Yes, he struck a rock and water flowed out;
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Streams gushed forth.
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>But can he also give us food?
><span class=poetry-quote-double>“</span>Will he provide meat for his people?”
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 21
><span class=verse-first-poetry>21</span>When the Lᴏʀᴅ heard this, he was furious.
>A fire broke out against Jacob,
>And his anger flared up against Israel,
###### 22
><span class=verse-body-poetry>22</span>Because they did not have faith in God,
>And did not trust his ability to deliver them.
###### 23
><span class=verse-body-poetry>23</span>He gave a command to the clouds above,
>And opened the doors in the sky.
###### 24
><span class=verse-body-poetry>24</span>He rained down manna for them to eat;
>He gave them the grain of heaven.
###### 25
><span class=verse-body-poetry>25</span>Man ate the food of the mighty ones.
>He sent them more than enough to eat.
###### 26
><span class=verse-body-poetry>26</span>He brought the east wind through the sky,
>And by his strength led forth the south wind.
###### 27
><span class=verse-body-poetry>27</span>He rained down meat on them like dust,
>Birds as numerous as the sand on the seashores.
###### 28
><span class=verse-body-poetry>28</span>He caused them to fall right in the middle of their camp,
>All around their homes.
###### 29
><span class=verse-body-poetry>29</span>They ate until they were beyond full;
>He gave them what they desired.
###### 30
><span class=verse-body-poetry>30</span>They were not yet filled up;
>Their food was still in their mouths,
###### 31
><span class=verse-body-poetry>31</span>When the anger of God flared up against them.
>He killed some of the strongest of them;
>He brought the young men of Israel to their knees.
###### 32
><span class=verse-body-poetry>32</span>Despite all this, they continued to sin,
>And did not trust him to do amazing things.
###### 33
><span class=verse-body-poetry>33</span>So he caused them to die unsatisfied
>And filled with terror.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 34
><span class=verse-first-poetry>34</span>When he struck them down, they sought his favor;
>They turned back and longed for God.
###### 35
><span class=verse-body-poetry>35</span>They remembered that God was their protector,
>And that God Most High was their deliverer.
###### 36
><span class=verse-body-poetry>36</span>But they deceived him with their words,
>And lied to him.
###### 37
><span class=verse-body-poetry>37</span>They were not really committed to him,
>And they were unfaithful to his covenant.
###### 38
><span class=verse-body-poetry>38</span>Yet he is compassionate.
>He forgives sin and does not destroy.
>He often holds back his anger,
>And does not stir up his fury.
###### 39
><span class=verse-body-poetry>39</span>He remembered that they were made of flesh,
>And were like a wind that blows past and does not return.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 40
><span class=verse-first-poetry>40</span>How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness,
>And insulted him in the wastelands.
###### 41
><span class=verse-body-poetry>41</span>They again challenged God,
>And offended the Holy One of Israel.
###### 42
><span class=verse-body-poetry>42</span>They did not remember what he had done,
>How he delivered them from the enemy,
###### 43
><span class=verse-body-poetry>43</span>When he performed his awesome deeds in Egypt,
>And his acts of judgment in the region of Zoan.
###### 44
><span class=verse-body-poetry>44</span>He turned their rivers into blood,
>And they could not drink from their streams.
###### 45
><span class=verse-body-poetry>45</span>He sent swarms of biting insects against them,
>As well as frogs that overran their land.
###### 46
><span class=verse-body-poetry>46</span>He gave their crops to the grasshopper,
>The fruit of their labor to the locust.
###### 47
><span class=verse-body-poetry>47</span>He destroyed their vines with hail,
>And their sycamore-fig trees with driving rain.
###### 48
><span class=verse-body-poetry>48</span>He rained hail down on their cattle,
>And hurled lightning bolts down on their livestock.
###### 49
><span class=verse-body-poetry>49</span>His raging anger lashed out against them.
>He sent fury, rage, and trouble
>As messengers who bring disaster.
###### 50
><span class=verse-body-poetry>50</span>He sent his anger in full force.
>He did not spare them from death;
>He handed their lives over to destruction.
###### 51
><span class=verse-body-poetry>51</span>He struck down all the firstborn in Egypt,
>The firstfruits of their reproductive power in the tents of Ham.
###### 52
><span class=verse-body-poetry>52</span>Yet he brought out his people like sheep;
>He led them through the wilderness like a flock.
###### 53
><span class=verse-body-poetry>53</span>He guided them safely along, and they were not afraid;
>But the sea covered their enemies.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 54
><span class=verse-first-poetry>54</span>He brought them to the border of his holy land,
>To this mountainous land that his right hand acquired.
###### 55
><span class=verse-body-poetry>55</span>He drove the nations out from before them;
>He assigned them their tribal allotments
>And allowed the tribes of Israel to settle down.
###### 56
><span class=verse-body-poetry>56</span>Yet they challenged and defied God Most High,
>And did not obey his commands.
###### 57
><span class=verse-body-poetry>57</span>They were unfaithful and acted as treacherously as their ancestors;
>They were as unreliable as a malfunctioning bow.
###### 58
><span class=verse-body-poetry>58</span>They made him angry with their pagan shrines,
>And made him jealous with their idols.
###### 59
><span class=verse-body-poetry>59</span>God heard and was angry;
>He completely rejected Israel.
###### 60
><span class=verse-body-poetry>60</span>He abandoned the sanctuary at Shiloh,
>The tent where he lived among men.
###### 61
><span class=verse-body-poetry>61</span>He allowed the symbol of his strong presence to be captured;
>He gave the symbol of his splendor into the hand of the enemy.
###### 62
><span class=verse-body-poetry>62</span>He delivered his people over to the sword,
>And was angry with his chosen nation.
###### 63
><span class=verse-body-poetry>63</span>Fire consumed their young men,
>And their virgins remained unmarried.
###### 64
><span class=verse-body-poetry>64</span>Their priests fell by the sword,
>But their widows did not weep.
<div class=paragraph-break></div>

###### 65
><span class=verse-first-poetry>65</span>But then the Lord awoke from his sleep;
>He was like a warrior in a drunken rage.
###### 66
><span class=verse-body-poetry>66</span>He drove his enemies back;
>He made them a permanent target for insults.
###### 67
><span class=verse-body-poetry>67</span>He rejected the tent of Joseph;
>He did not choose the tribe of Ephraim.
###### 68
><span class=verse-body-poetry>68</span>He chose the tribe of Judah
>And Mount Zion, which he loves.
###### 69
><span class=verse-body-poetry>69</span>He made his sanctuary as enduring as the heavens above,
>As secure as the earth, which he established permanently.
###### 70
><span class=verse-body-poetry>70</span>He chose David, his servant,
>And took him from the sheepfolds.
###### 71
><span class=verse-body-poetry>71</span>He took him away from following the mother sheep,
>And made him the shepherd of Jacob, his people,
>And of Israel, his chosen nation.
###### 72
><span class=verse-body-poetry>72</span>David cared for them with pure motives;
>He led them with skill.
##### <span class=arrow-left></span>[[ps77|Prev]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps78notes|Notes]]<span class=navigation-separator></span>[[ps79|Next]]<span class=arrow-right></span>